"  Mr. President, I should first like to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of the twenty-fifth session of the General Assembly and to assure you of our complete cooperation in the discharge of your functions."
"This Assembly meets a quarter of a century after the Charter was signed and the United Nations created. This occasion prompts us to take stock of the results achieved, to assess the effectiveness and utility of the Organization and to analyze the means and action required to help it achieve the aspirations and ideals for which it was created."
"This Organization was created to promote a new international order based on respect for the equal rights of all States large and small, and on the age-old determination of the peoples of the world to live in peace, to establish international cooperation and to develop. Those desires remain valid 25 years later."
"The fight against imperialist aggression, the fight to do away completely with colonialism and neocolonialism, to ensure that all the peoples of the world may enjoy their sacred right to self-determination and independence, to create conditions in which backward nations can develop economically and socially and overcome the barriers between them and the achievements of science and technology these continue to be the most important tasks before us, and they have prompted most of mankind to join together in a common front."
"However, as a result of factors that have nothing to do with the Charter, and which may be summed"
"up as the failure of certain imperialist Powers, and particularly the United States, to comply with its purposes and principles, the United Nations has been unable fully to carry out its lofty mission of guaranteeing international peace and security."
"An item that has remained on our agenda since the last session as a result of an initiative of the delegation of the Soviet Union the strengthening of international security has unquestionably helped to bring that preoccupation into focus. Cuba shares the concern expressed by that delegation and by other socialist countries in the draft declaration that has in this connexion been submitted to the First Committee for consideration [AIC.I.IL.513]."
"Cuba has unswervingly maintained that peace is an indivisible and universal value and can be guaranteed only when it is enjoyed by everyone without exception. So it is that the successful efforts to bring about peace in today's world depend both on the fight against imperialist aggression and on militant solidarity with any people facing imperialist aggression, weapons in hand. Stopping the aggressor and cutting off its claws wherever he may be trying to use them is the best way of guaranteeing the security of those who may fall victim tomorrow."
"The peoples of Indo-China, the Middle East and Africa are therefore in the vanguard of efforts to achieve peace and universal security."
"The situation in Indo-China seems about to be resolved. American imperialism, after a long and cruel war in which almost all the resources of its criminal arsenal have been used, not only has been unsuccessful in taking away the freedom and independence of the people of VietNam but also has suffered at their hands, one of the greatest military and political defeats in its history. Its infamous cause in VietNam having been irretrievably lost, the only way out now for the United States is immediately, completely and unconditionally to withdraw its troops, equipment and military personnel and its allies and lackeys must do the same. It has no other alternative unless it wishes to continue to accumulate defeats on the battlefield and dishonor and repudiation throughout the world."
"1Cuba once again expresses complete solidarity with the people of VietNam and the Government of the Democratic Republic of VietNam, which has just commemorated the twenty-fifth anniversary of its heroic and exemplary existence, with the Revolutionary Provisional Government of South VietNam and the popular armed forces for the liberation of South"
"VietNam, which in their just and courageous struggle have shown all oppressed peoples the way to complete emancipation. International solidarity with the cause of the VietNamese people has become ever stronger with the passing ^f each day. This bears witness to universal repudiation of the innumerable crimes by American imperialism and its overseers in Saigon. The Conference of NonAligned Countries held last month in Lusaka  was a clear indication of the sweeping movement of sympathy and solidarity with the VietNamese people. Participation by the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South VietNam in the person of Foreign Minister Comrade Nguyen Thi Bin is a great stride forward in the movement of nonaligned countries who in this way have demonstrated their unswerving commitment to the struggle of the people of the world against imperialism and colonialism. The ovation given by the participants to Mrs. Bin was the longest and loudest of the entire Conference. The resolution which was adopted on Indo-China is an unequivocal warning to American imperialism that the peoples of the third world are standing by the VietNamese and other people of Indo-China in their heroic struggle against aggression and in"
"1But this solidarity is not shared solely by those who have experienced the harsh realities of colonialism. In Western metropolitan countries and in particular in the United States itself people have been expressing their determined support for heroic Indo-China."
"1The Provisional Revolutionary Government of South VietNam submitted to the Paris Conference on 17 September last an important proposal designed to resolve the VietNamese problem and to bring about progress in talks. The Government of the United States must put an end to its so-called policy of Viet Namization of the war and must formally declare that it will withdraw all its troops and all those of its allies before 30 June 1971. It is also proposed that a provisional coalition government be set up consisting of members of the present Provisional Revolutionary Government, members of the Saigon Administration who genuinely want peace, independence and neutrality, and persons of various political and religious persuasions including those who reside abroad for political reasons. Obviously such a government will not include the traitors Thieu, Ky and Khiem. This Government would pursue an independent foreign policy, one of friendship and respect for the territorial integrity of the Kingdoms of Laos and Cambodia."
"1The present American Administration with low profile demagoguery has promised peace while expanding the war. Imperialist aggression has extended to the kingdom of Cambodia in the plot against Prince Samdec Norodom Sihanouk and there is now greater use of Yankee and Saigon troops against Laos. An imperialist move is now afoot to use Asians against Asians or and this amounts to the same thing to organize the military riffraff of their lackeys to defend the interests of their imperialist masters against the patriotic forces of the people. This move met with failure in the past when imperialism undertook the so called \"special war\". Starting the whole thing once again today shows that the criminal strategy of the Pentagon has run out of ideas. The present course can lead only to an even greater defeat for imperialism. The Yankee slogan of \"Asians against Asians\" is one which the people of the region will turn into \"Asia against American imperialism and their traitors and mercenaries\". The Conference of the peoples of Indo-China made an historic commitment and expressed its unanimous determination to fight until it has completely done away with American intervention."
"1A particular cause for indignation is aggression against Cambodia. The neutral Cambodia of Prince Sihanouk defended its independence and sovereignty in exemplary fashion in difficult circumstances. Its conduct earned it the admiration of the whole world, particularly of the independent Asian and African nations. At the third conference of nonaligned countries the opinion of the third world on the situation in Cambodia was set forth with utmost clarity. After a lengthy debate in which 40 countries participated, 21 unequivocally stated that the only legitimate representative of Cambodia at the conference was the Royal Government of the National Union presided over by Prince Sihanouk. Only seven delegations defended the spurious representation of Lon Nol and 12 abstained. The figures could not be more eloquent. It is indeed scandalous that in this Assembly the lawful seat of the Government of Cambodia has been usurped by spokesmen of a puppet regime created by the Central Intelligence Agency, propped up by foreign bayonets and guilty of the crime of genocide against its own people. This Assembly must heed the call of the people of the third world, expressed at the Lusaka Conference, and must expel the"
"1In the Far East the tensions provoked by the aggressive policies of American imperialism against the Popular Democratic Republic of Korea continue. This problem has been considered by the General Assembly for many years. It is high time that it was resolved in the only way consistent with the principles of the Charter. The immediate withdrawal of all foreign troops from South Korea must be called for and the so-called United Nations Commission for the Unification and Rehabilitation of Korea must be dissolved. Once and for all an end must be put to United Nations interference in the internal affairs of the Korean people. The peaceful and independent unification of Korea is a matter for the Korean people alone. Using the United Nations as an instrument in the antiKorean policies of the Government in Washington is a gross violation of the principles of the Charter and seriously impairs the prestige of this Organization."
"1The conflict created by imperialist aggression in the Middle East continues unresolved. Cuba reaffirms its support of the Arab peoples and once again calls for the withdrawal of Israeli troops from all occupied territories in the United Arab Republic, Syria and Jordan. Once again we express our solidarity with the Palestinian people in their heroic struggle to exercise their legitimate rights."
"1We express once again our feelings of grief over the death of President Gamal Abdel Nasser, the great leader of the Egyptian people and hero of the Arab nation. His passing is a particularly severe blow for it has occurred at a time when the imperialists are threatening fresh aggression against the Arab people while Nixon is engaged in sabre-rattling around the Mediterranean."
"1Young African nations, working hard to bring about progress, justice and independence, must cope with the growing threats of the forces of colonialism and racism which, disregarding all the resolutions adopted by this Assembly and the Security Council, wish to keep Africa in slavery and serfdom. The Lusaka Conference once again demonstrated that there is unity among all nonaligned countries defending the rights of the African peoples. It called on this Organization to adopt effective measures to put an end to colonialism and racial oppression and it condemned the military support which South Africa has been receiving from Western Powers. My delegation will cooperate with whatever efforts are made here to support the just fight of the peoples of Angola, Mozambique, Guinea (Bissau), Zimbabwe, Namibia and South Africa."
"1The right to self-determination is a universal one; it is an inalienable prerogative the exercise of which must be guaranteed for all peoples in all regions of the world. Therefore, my delegation once again would denounce the inertia of this Organization regarding the case of Puerto Rico. Five years ago my country called for consideration of the subject in the Special Committee on decolonization. But the Special Committee has not yet been able to consider it due to the stubborn opposition of the United States the administering Power. Puerto Rico is, has been, and will always be a Latin American nation. American military occupation since 1898, and pressure which has been brought to bear by all the resources of its empire to absorb it in the metropolitan country, has not been able to undermine the desire for independence of that sister people. Cuba would call on those who are opposed to colonialism to express their solidarity with the heroic struggle of the Puerto Rican people for national independence."
"2Now when many delegations are concerned with strengthening the effectiveness of the Organization the question of its universality acquires fresh importance. However, there still remains a problem which has been hampering our activities for more than 20 years the representation of China. Our position is very well known and I need now only confirm it. Cuba will once again request that the lawful rights of the People's Republic of China be restored in this Organization and that the usurper Chiang Kaishek clique be expelled."
"2The work of our Organization would be more effective if more States which could make an important contribution to international relations could participate. That is true of the German Democratic Republic. Discrimination against that independent State is unjust and harmful to the international community for it deprives it of the cooperation of a peaceful country which has achieved a high degree of economic development."
"2As we begin the Second United Nations Development Decade the problem of promoting economic and social progress in the countries of the third world has become more pressing. We shall be considering that item in detail when it is taken up in the appropriate Committee, but we should now like to state a few important considerations which on more than one occasion have already been put forward by representatives of Cuba. The general picture outlined in various United Nations documents suggests that the effects of underdevelopment have been only slightly lessened. It is necessary to emphasize that development demands as its primary requisite profound structural changes in countries which wish to develop. That in turn inevitably requires revolutionary changes in the structure of power and social relations before injustice and inequality can be eliminated. Without such changes it would be illusory to imagine that the people can be mobilized or that the masses can make the sacrifices needed to develop the country."
"2In the circumstances, therefore, it is impossible to expect that the Second Development Decade will achieve more than the first unless there is a radical change in international trade relations and in the generally prevailing ideas about foreign financing and its conditions."
"2Furthermore, Cuba has said that the projected growth rate corresponds not even remotely to the plight of the developing countries. An annual per capita growth rate of between 3.5 per cent and 4.5 per cent in those countries means that the average annual income of the inhabitants of the countries of the third world would be approximately equivalent to 10 per cent of the average income of people in the developed capitalist countries and 5 per cent of the per capita income of the citizens of the United States. Such a prospect is hardly satisfactory for millions of men and women who live in poverty and who are prepared to fight for a more dignified existence."
"2A number of delegations have expressed their concern over the hijacking of civilian aircraft. Cuba's position was very clearly set forth in the statement made by the delegation of Cuba in the general debate last year [1705th meeting] and in Cuba's Act 1226 promulgated by the Revolutionary Government to deal with this new form of crime. Allow me to say once again that Cuba has suffered more than any other country from the effects of these criminal activities which were invented, organized and promoted by the imperialist Government of the United States and its lackeys on this continent in an attempt to place our revolution in jeopardy. Since 1959 dozens of planes and hundreds of ships have been taken from our country and directed to the United States using violence leading on many occasions to the death of crew members and innocent passengers. Many of those planes and ships never came back to our country. They were literally stolen by the imperialists or their henchmen, and the end result, because of the bounty taken, has been tantamount to an act of piracy. The people responsible were never punished and even appeared on television and in the United States Congress where the legislators today who are"
"2But the facts are there, eloquent and unassailable. No country has seized so many ships and planes in acts of piracy as the United States. No other country has provided a reception, protection and encouragement for those responsible for these misdeeds as the United States has done."
"2Cuba, for its part, has rigorously applied a policy of immediately allowing these ships and crews to continue to their destinations and we have never encouraged such activities. Our Government was the first to pass a law establishing sanctions for those responsible for hijacking ships or aircraft. Our position is set forth in that law. We have not modified it nor do we intend to do so."
"2We reject any attempt at pressure or boycotting through multilateral agreements and we would repeat that we are prepared to discuss the question of bilateral agreements to' resolve this problem with those countries which are prepared to take exactly the same action that we have taken as regards the hijacking of ships and planes and as regards other violations of laws and norms which govern international traffic and this on a strictly reciprocal basis."
"2In connexion with this problem and to dispel certain tendentious interpretations, I will read the statement made on 28 September last by the Foreign Minister of Cuba, Dr. Raul Roa:"
"\"We hope that the Government of the United States will not try an American citizen, Robert J. Labadie, for this is a case of mental alienation which has been established both in the United States and in Cuba."
"\"Mr. Robert J. Labadie is in a psychiatric hospital in Cuba. The Government of the United States, through the Swiss embassy, in a note dated 27 August of this year, expressed its willingness to receive Mr. Labadie in view of the fact that he \"was under psychiatric treatment in the Valley Forge Hospital in Phoenixville, Pennsylvania. The Government of Cuba agreed to return him for humanitarian reasons."
"\"The authorities of the United States concealed this circumstance from public opinion. To apply the penal law to this person who is mentally ill would be a dishonest and illegal act."
"\"Through mere publicity the problem of the hijacking of planes cannot be solved."
"\"If the Government of the United States seriously wishes to deal with this problem, the Government of Cuba is prepared to sign immediately an agreement on the basis established in Cuban Act 1226, promulgated on 16 September 1969, which includes, in addition to the hijacking of aircraft, the hijacking of ships and other violations of laws and norms governing international traffic."
"\"We also wish to say clearly and categorically that we will not accept or endorse any international agreement on the hijacking of aircraft unless it specifically includes all other forms of piracy and violations without any exceptions.\""
"3Of course, during the present debate an attempt was made to blame Cuba for these incidents. The self styled prosecutor has been a lawyer with the United Fruit Company and the Allied Chemical Company; he is at present a representative of the Aluminum Corporation of America, United States Steel and other United States companies, and in his leisure hours acts as the Foreign Minister of Costa Rica."
"3Mr. Facio tried to divert the attention of this Assembly in his futile attempt to cover up aggressive plans against Cuba involving the Government that he personally represents. For a few months now, American imperialism has been hatching new aggressive plans against Cuba for which it is using the territories of Costa Rica and Nicaragua. This is a secret to no one. With the effrontery typical of pirates they even preach this to the four winds."
"3Let us see what that gentleman said in Miami on 7 June last, according to the American press agency UPI:"
"\"Gonzalo Facio, Foreign Minister of Costa Rica, suggested last night that the time had come 'to promote internal turmoil' in communist Cuba to overthrow the regime of Fidel Castro. He said that 'a few immediate blows from the defenders of freedom' would precipitate the defeat of Castro's control on the island.\""
"He went on to say:"
"\"First, Cuban military forces which are prepared to rebel must be guaranteed that they will be given the necessary means to do so.\""
"3On 5 August last, when receiving two counterrevolutionary ringleaders who were organizing mercenary forces to be used for aggression against Cuba, President Jose Figueres of Costa Rica said:"
"\"We must undertake a crusade to do away with all these ills and perhaps even to reply to one blow with one hundred blows, including armed action against Cuba for only our Latin American offensive can reverse the roles and bring everything into play to restore and strengthen our democratic system in America.\""
"This is a direct quotation of Mr. Figueres' words which appeared in the newspaper La Nation of San Jose, Costa Rica, on 6 August 1970 and is taken from a report by the Associated Press, dated the same day."
"3The stateless persons who have lost Cuban citizenship were so pleased with promises of aggression against Cuba that one of them said, according to the same newspaper: \"When we go back to Cuba on 5 August 1970, that is, the day of the interview with Mr. Figueres, this will be a day which will go down in history as the first day of the Cuban liberation.\""
"3A few days later Mr. Somoza, who is the present titular leader of the dynasty of Nicaragua and who on 26 July last exhorted other Nicaraguans to go and fight for the liberation of Cuba, received them in the same bellicose frame of mind."
"3Our Government is familiar with the activities being carried out by mercenaries in the Caribbean and particularly in Florida, Costa Rica and Nicaragua. Our people, united and strong as ever, are prepared to put down, with an iron fist, any aggressors that dare to tread Cuban soil with their dirty boots."
"3It would be regrettable indeed if these \"crusades\", paid for by the United Fruit Company, Allied Chemical, United States Steel or the Aluminum Corporation of America, were to forget the lessons of history. They should recall that almost 10 years ago, at the Bay of Pigs, our people put down the mercenary invasion organized, financed and directed by the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States Government."
"3The Prime Minister of the Revolutionary Government of Cuba, Fidel Castro, issued a clear warning to the puppets planning aggression against Cuba, in his statement on 23 August last:"
"\"Let none believe that they have the right to organize expeditions within their territory against our country, for we shall feel that we have the right, with the means available to us, to bring the war to the territory of the country that lends itself to such invasions against our country.\""
"He added:"
"\"We do not feel obliged to show any respect for the lackey Governments that organize bases for aggression against Cuba.\""
"3That is a reply worthy of a people who achieved its independence and sovereignty at the price of much sacrifice and heroically faced the most powerful empire of the world. This is the position of a people prepared to defend its rights no matter what the circumstances, no matter how powerful the enemy. This is the unshakable policy of a people determined to live in peace but not fearing combat, one that will victoriously repel any act of aggression. This is the position of a people that will never return to being the prey of imperialists and will always raise high the banner of socialism in the heart of the Caribbean, at the very gates of the worst enemy of mankind. Fatherland or death. We shall prevail."
NA
NA
NA
NA
"12 At the outset of the Second United Nations Development Decade, the undertakings to overcome the conditions of backwardness and subordination which prevail in the greater portion of mankind are still uppermost in the minds of most delegations. The results achieved thus far and the perspectives for the immediate future clearly indicate that we are still far from having achieved true international co-operation or of breathing real-life into the purposes and principles proclaimed in the Charter of San Francisco,"
"12The aggressive policy of imperialism, particularly of North American imperialism, constitutes the main obstacle to the establishment of adequate rules governing relations among States. The present situation in the world eloquently bespeaks the fact that ,the imperialists are not resigning themselves to the loss of their privileges, they are not complying with the precepts of the international organs and they are mobilizing all their resources to hinder the efforts of the countries of the third world to strengthen their own independence and sovereignty. Asia, Africa and Latin America are still the arenas where the decisive struggle is being waged between the subjected people and an imperialism which refuses to bow to the dictates of history."
"12Indo-China is still the region that polarizes that fundamental contradiction of our day. The war of aggression unleashed by Yankee imperialism against Viet-Nam, Laos and Cambodia not only shows the people of the third world the best example of the true designs of imperialism, but also points to the only way to wipe out the policies of aggression and exploitation. For many years North American imperialism has used against the Viet-Namese people all the warlike resources of its arsenals. Against that people it has mobilized contingents of its allies and Asian lackeys. It has widened aggression against the territories of Cambodia and Laos. In the territories of those three countries it has unleashed all the criminal potentials of its many means of chemical and biological destruction. On Viet-Namese territory it has dropped more bombs than all those that were dropped on Europe in the course of the Second World War. It has committed the most atrocious acts of genocide against the civilian population. It resorts to all means to pressure the Viet-Namese people and to shake its firm decision to achieve independence."
"12And yet the heroic and determined struggle of the people of Viet-Nam, led by the Government of the Democratic Republic of Viet-Nam and the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Viet-Nam, has dealt North American imperialism its greatest, most absolute and most irreparable defeat. The incomparable Viet-Namese resistance has proved that imperialism is not invincible. It has opened new channels for the struggle for emancipation of the oppressed peoples. It has also gathered around itself world opposition to American imperialism, and even inside the United States itself, it has let loose resistance to the policy of war and death dictated by the great monopolies."
"12The result of that confrontation is the complete failure of the United States Government's aims to subjugate the peoples of Indo-China. Today no one, not even the hierarchy of the Pentagon, believes in the possibility of a Yankee military victory. Politically, diplomatically and militarily speaking, the aggression against Viet-Nam has met the worst defeat suffered thus far by North American imperialism and yet the authorities in Washington try at all costs to continue their interference in the Indo-Chinese peninsula, they refuse a total, immediate and unconditional withdrawal of their troops and they cling to their dreams of domination in Asia. It is for that reason that it is indispensable that efforts be redoubled to put an immediate end to the aggression against the people of Indo-China. Solidarity with the peoples of that region is still an unshakable duty for all until the full liquidation of imperialist aggression is achieved."
"12The seven-point proposal of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Viet-Nam is the sole formula that can restore peace and correctly solve the problem of Viet-Nam, guaranteeing fundamental national rights to the Viet-Namese people, That proposal is also consistent with the interests of the North American people and with the aspirations to peace and justice of other peoples all over the world. The Government in Washington has thus far refused to reply to the peaceful initiative of the Viet-Namese people. In the meantime the United States stubbornly continues and widens the war by the clumsy maneuver of so-called \"Viet-Namization\"; it tries to obtain military victories in order to negotiate from a position of strength; it continues its aggression and its interference in South Viet-Nam and it makes use of the warmongering group of Nguyen Van Thieu as an instrument of its neo-colonialist policies. The American refusal to reply to the proposals of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South VietNam and its stubbornness in imposing the Thieu group through a scandalous electoral farce clearly indicate that the Government of the United States means to continue violating the right to self-determination of the South Viet-Namese people and intends to perpetuate its aggression."
"12It is for that reason that world public opinion must resolutely condemn the policy of the war of imperialism; it must insist that the Government in Washington give a favorable response to the peace initiatives of the Provisional Revolutionary Government and that it commit itself to the immediate, total and unconditional withdrawal of all its troops. The Government of the United States must be required to abide by and respect the agreements of September 1962 on Laos, to put an immediate end to the aggression and intervention against that country and, furthermore, to respect the independence, peace, neutrality and territorial integrity of Cambodia and fully, totally and unconditionally to cease its intervention in that country."
"12The numberless crimes committed by North American imperialism against the people of Indo-China constitute a debt in blood that the imperialists have assumed towards all peoples of the world that no propagandistic or diplomatic maneuvers can ever disguise Towards Viet-Nam, furthermore, the peoples of the world have assumed an immense debt of gratitude for the contribution that that small Asian country by its indomitable resistance has made to the cause of preserving the independence and peace by the rest of mankind."
"12In Latin America the revolutionary anti-imperialist movement is still gaining ground and shaking the foundations of North American hegemony over a region of the world where the United States monopolies exercised almost exclusive domination for almost a century. The establishment of the Government of Popular Unity in Chile, the establishment in Peru of a nationalist Government and the development all over the continent of a popular movement which offers the most concrete example, in the case of Uruguay, of throwing out of government the oligarchic group serving imperialism; these are all obvious signs that Latin America has now entered a new phase, one that will not be concluded until the entire continent has achieved its , second and true independence."
"13For years the North American imperialists considered Latin America as their own private domain, where their monopolies could impose their will and where the peoples were denied the possibilities of recovering their natural resources or fully exercising their sovereign rights. Every .serious effort made by our people to take a step towards independence and progress was brutally cut off by the imperialist Government of the United States. With the guilty connivance or the servile applause of the Organization of American States, Yankee imperialism and its continental servants cut off at the root, the efforts of our peoples to set up more just systems of government and eliminate the causes of backwardness, misery and exploitation imposed on them by centuries of vassalage. The peoples of Latin America remember far too well the heroic efforts of Augusto Cesar Sandino in the mountains of Nicaragua; the open intervention against Guatemala in 1954; the landing of Yankee troops in Santo Domingo in 1965; the massacres of the Panamanian people; the colonial occupation of Puerto Rico; the establishment of Fascist regimes; the slaughter of Indians, workers, peasants and students when they claimed their rights; the invasion of Cuba in 1961; and the pressures on and interference in the affairs of our peoples."
"13But today the situation begins to change radically. The time when American imperialism could dominate our continent without let or hindrance has ended. The Latin American peoples now, with firm step., have headed toward their full national emancipation. The imperialists and the parasitic oligarchies know that today they confront a fight to the finish, cne in which they are condemned by history to fail: thus they unscrupulously organize a continental repression against all revolutionary movements, and devise conspiracies and provocations against popular governments. The recent fascist coup d'etat in Bolivia under the Yankee Central Intelligence Agency with the open support of the Governments of Brazil, Paraguay and Argentina, was an assault on the revolutionary movement and against all the peoples of Latin America. Fascism has gained an ephemeral victory in Bolivia. It imposed itself over the corpses of hundreds of workers and students, but its regime of hatred, treason and crime will not last. The Bolivian people know how to regain the positions they have momentarily lost, and then to advance and conquer revolutionary power."
"13As the Prime Minister of the Revolutionary Government of Cuba, Commander Fidel Castro, stated on 27 August last:"
"\"We are fully convinced that that Government cannot last, that the Fascists will not be able to keep themselves in power, that the Bolivians will indefatigably struggle until they, shall we say, regain the right road. But it will be more than the right road; it will be to gain power through revolution."
"\"It is obvious that imperialism and reaction have hurled a great challenge to the revolutionary movement with the events in Bolivia, And it is the duty of the international revolutionary movement, to give help and moral and material support to the Bolivian revolutionary in their struggle for liberation.\""
"13Imperialism and its oligarchic underlings cannot set back the revolutionary movement in Latin America. The struggle of the people of this continent has gone once and for all beyond the channels in which the exploiters those lackey regimes and those reformist and shaky groups tried to keep them. The a glorious example of thousands of revolutionary fighters who lost their lives for the cause of continental emancipation constitutes the impetus of the present process and the sure guarantee that that process will not stop until the last Latin American country has fully shaken off Yankee vassalage. The thoughts and the im-mortal example of Commander Ernesto Che Guevara are today more living and powerful than ever, and offer encouragement to millions of Latin Americans in their march towards the battle without fear and without surrender, ready now and forever to conquer their independence once and for all."
"13The Revolutionary Government of Cuba is deeply convinced of the total victory which will crown the revolutionary movements and the peoples of Latin America. We pledge our full solidarity to the revolutionary fighters in all corners of America and to the popular Governments that endeavor to strengthen their national independence."
"13The revolutionary position of Cuba and its unshakable commitment to those who are heroically confronting Yankee imperialism will never change. Cuba will not bring down its revolutionary flag in any circumstances. We shall stubbornly and with determination stand up against Yankee imperialism and its Latin American lackeys. to the gambles, maneuvers and lying campaigns of imperialism, Cuba can once again emphatically and categorically reply that it has no desire to rejoin the so-called Organization of American States, nor to re-establish relations with the puppet regimes of imperialism which oppress their peoples and are composed of corrupt and servile exploiting minorities. The Organization of American States is a putrid Organization, in bad repute, useless and already breathing its last. The Organization of American States will inevitably disappear, swept away by the un-containable waves of revolution of the Latin American peoples."
"13With regard to bilateral relations, Cuba wishes to state that it would only be ready to re-establish such relations with those Latin American countries that have shaken off Yankee domination and that act with true sovereignty and really defend the interests of their peoples against foreign monopolies. With oligarchs, with demagogues, with pretenders and with traitors to Latin America, we shall never have anything to do. They, too, will be irredeemably smashed by the revolutionary action of their own peoples."
"13With regard to the foreman of the Organization of American States, United States imperialism, the Revolutionary Government of Cuba has unshakably and unequivocally defined its position. Under no circumstances and regardless of the difficulties our people may have to confront, will Cuba ever abandon its position of principle: we are revolutionary and anti-imperialist and fully support the anti-imperialist movements of liberation on our continent. We shall not compromise with American imperialism. We shall never seek conciliation or understanding with the imperialists that for so many years exploited us, as today they exploit millions of our brothers on this continent  with those who sow war and destruction among the peoples of south-east Asia, with those who uphold the reactionary and non-popular groups, with those who tried to break the backs of our people and organized against us blockades, mercenary aggressions and threats of total extermination. The foreign policy of the Revolutionary Government of Cuba is based on immutable principles. We are bound to the movement of liberation against imperialism, and that struggle will not end until the peoples in their resolute battle and fighting united will have beaten to their knees those who are to blame for exploitation, misery and backwardness."
"13The struggle for the total emancipation of Latin America is a factor of crucial importance in the process of the liberation of the peoples of the third world and basic to true universal peace."
"13Independent and progressive States are in duty bound to support the liberating undertakings of peoples of this part of the world."
"14Cuba is at one with the peoples subjected to colonial domination, particularly in Angola, Mozambique and Guinea (Bissau). Once again we state our repudiation of the political and criminal policies of racial segregation imposed by the South African regime, and we repeat our support Arr the struggle of the peoples of Namibia and Zimbabwe,"
"14At the same time, we wish to express the imperative duty of Member States to assist the people of Puerto Rico in their struggle against United States colonialism. The discussion that took place this year on our request [A/8441 and Add J] for examination in the Assembly of the colonial case of that territory has merely shown up the United States fallacies regarding the status of Puerto Rico. The United States delegation was unable to refute any of our arguments, which eloquently proved that that sister island has been subjected to classical colonialism and that its people have never been allowed freely to exercise their inalienable right to self-determination. Cuba will continue to fight for this Organization to fulfill its duties-those duties imposed on it by resolution 1514 (XV)--with regard to Puerto Rico. We shall continue to urge the United Nations to assume its full responsibilities so that we shall know once and for all whether the anti-colonialism of this Organization is a universal principle or whether it becomes useless when we call for its use against American pressure."
"14Cuba wishes to confirm the position we adopted on the question of the conflict in the Middle East. We repeat that this question cannot be solved until the State of Israel withdraws its armed forces from the territories it occupied in a number of Arab States and until the people of Palestine are guaranteed full exercise of their national rights,"
"14Cuba insists upon the withdrawal of United States troops occupying South Korea and the dissolution of the so-called United Nations Commission for the Unification and Rehabilitation of Korea, Implementation of both these measures is the imperative duty of this Organization if it is to comply with the principles of its Charter. The United Nations interference in the domestic affairs of Korea must cease forthwith, and the Korean people must be permitted, alone and without alien interference, to solve the problem of the country's reunification."
"14Once again the General Assembly is to consider the question of the restoration of the lawful rights of the People's Republic of China. On this, our position is the same as that stated and defined year after year from this same rostrum. Consistent with that position, the Cuban delegation is co-sponsoring the draft resolution which advocates the restoration of the rights of that State and the expulsion of the Chiang Kai-shek group [A/L.630 and Add J]."
"14The United Nations must truly become universal. To do so, we have to secure the participation in this Organization of the German Democratic Republic, a sovereign and independent State."
"14The world of today is living through a determining moment for its future. The conflict between the forces of progress and the interests of the minorities that hold wealth has reached a critical moment. While the retrograde forcer* preserve their hegemony in some regions of the world and reflect their influence in our Organization, we can hardly expect satisfactory results from the efforts being made to promote international co-operation."
"14The present international moment, at the same time, however, is filled with potential progress and happiness for peoples. Imperialism stands surrounded by many contradictions and it has found turned against it the results of its aggressive policies. The crisis of United States imperialism ruminated in the recent economic measures announced by"
"Nixon. They reflect the growing obstacles that United States monopolies are finding in their role as the gendarmes of mankind. But, by the same token, they are an indication of the fact that imperialism intends to solve its difficulties at the expense of the legitimate interests of the developing countries, which would be the ones to suffer from the arbitrary restrictions imposed on international trade which those United States decisions have created. This being the case, the countries of what we call the third world must redouble the defense of their common interests and stand together against the American designs."
"14At the beginning of the last decade the imperialist Government of the United States arbitrarily canceled the Cuban sugar quota and imposed a savage economic and trade blockade on our country. When these illegal and criminal measures were adopted against Cuba, my country did not enjoy the solidarity which the international community called for under the San Francisco Charter. On the contrary, other countries accepted the crumbs of what was left of our sugar quota, handed out by the Yankees as bribery to purchase the necessary votes to push through the Organization of American States the decisions against Cuba."
"14The United Nations turned a deaf ear to our denunciations, and Cuba had to confront and resist alone, counting only on the assistance of the socialist countries to outlive the criminal measures intended to strangle us economically,"
"15Today, Yankee imperialism is imposing restrictions which seriously affect the developing nations and particularly those of Latin America. Those who yesterday tore up the agreements born of our common history are now reaping the fruits of their docility in the face of the imperialist dictates. It is not Cuba, but they, who today must confront the arbitrary restrictions, the barriers to trade and the obstacles to their development."
"15Cuba, which yesterday suffered much more drastic measures intended to destroy it and confronted them with courage while other Latin American countries not only abandoned it but quickly hastened to participate in despoiling a sister people of its rights; Cuba, which had to stand practically alone against the criminal policy of Yankee imperialism; Cuba today offers its support to the just claim of the third world against the restrictive measures imposed on international trade by the Government of Washington."
"15For the peoples of Asia, Africa and Latin America the future holds periods of strife and sacrifice. The future to which those peoples have a right is not one that can be easily won, but victory is not far off, and how close it is will depend on the degree of cohesion and determination with which the progressive forces battle. The united struggle of the socialist countries, the peoples of the third world and the revolutionary forces of the rest of the world could very well surround the imperialists and turn the balance of history once and for all in favor of those who struggle for justice, peace and the progress of mankind."
"15Cuba, whose international policy draws inspiration from revolutionary principles, whose line of conduct is inspired by the heroic traditions of our people, whose acts obey the rule of full solidarity with oppressed peoples, faces the future with optimism. The peoples subjected by imperialism, colonialism and neo-colonialism will not falter in their struggle for full liberation, and in that struggle lies the key to the future. And in that struggle they can always rely upon the solidarity of Cuba."
NA
NA
NA
NA
"Mr. President, I am very happy to express the gratification of the Cuban delegation on your election as President of the General Assembly. We are happy at your nomination not only because of the skill with which you are conducting our deliberations but also because you represent the Polish People's Republic, linked as it is to Cuba by close ties of friendship and fraternal co-operation."
"2The general debate is now drawing to an end. Each year it helps to show up the grave problems confronting our peoples. From the general debate with overwhelming accuracy, we realize that the world is still confronted by the same situations as at previous sessions; that the most acute problems of the moment are still awaiting solution; that peoples still continue their indefatigable efforts to create a world based on independence, on full respect for national rights, on the eradication of social injustice and on the achievement of progress for all."
"2However, the yearly statement of those problems and their constant stigmatizing has served little purpose. The repeated efforts made here to ensure full respect for the purposes and principles of the Charter have led to but meager results. The efforts of the majority of the Members of the Organization to establish a new international order based on the principles that underlay the creation of the United Nations have come up against the attitude of the imperialist and colonialist Powers, which try by all means to perpetuate their exploitation of other peoples, to despoil them of their wealth and impose their will upon them."
"2In Indo-China, in the Middle East, in Africa and in Latin America we see taking place a unique process of open warfare without quarter between the emerging peoples and the reactionary forces which are obstinately determined to halt the inexorable march of history."
"2The aggression against Viet-Nam is still the main international problem. The crimes committed by the United States Government go beyond the limits of human imagination and beggar Nazi barbarism. The Yankees have directed against the people of Viet-Nam all the resources of a technology which serves infamy and their plans for universal enslavement and domination. The bombing of dikes and irrigation systems, the indiscriminate destruction of VietNamese towns and villages, the mining and blockading of ports of the Democratic Republic of Viet-Nam, the mass use of toxic chemical substances-all these call for the most resolute and outraged condemnation by all peoples. The Government of Mr. Nixon is guilty of the most monstrous crimes. Civilized conscience and history have both condemned him for genocide, biocide and ecocide and call upon the international community to take energetic action to put an end to Yankee brutality, to clip the claws of the Pentagon, and to assure the VietNamese people of their sacred right to independence and to decide on their future."
"2There is no other solution to the problem of Viet-Nam than acceptance of the seven-point program submitted by the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Viet-Nam. That program enjoys the support of international public opinion, which was made clear at the recent Conference of Foreign Ministers of Non-Aligned Countries, held in Georgetown, Guyana, from 8 to 12 August 1972. The Conference demanded the immediate, total and unconditional withdrawal of all North American troops, military personnel and war equipment from Viet-Nam and the cessation of intervention in that country, and called upon the North American Government to take part seriously in the Paris talks and to give a favorable response to the proposals of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Viet-Nam and of the Democratic Republic of Viet-Nam. By admitting as a full-fledged member the Provisional Revolutionary Government, the Conference evidenced its commitment of solidarity with the heroic struggle of the VietNamese people and once more affirmed that that struggle has earned the admiration and support of all peoples. In that way the countries meeting in Guyana made it clear, moreover, that the incomparable stubbornness of the Viet-Namese people which has culminated in their memorable victory over Yankee brutality constitutes, the greatest contribution to the cause of the emancipation of all countries of the so-called third world."
"2Hence, all peoples of the world joyously greet the successful achievements of the Viet-Namese fighters and hail like a personal triumph the defeat of the Yankee policy in South Viet-Nam and in all Indo-China. North American imperialism has been thoroughly defeated in its filthy war of aggression. In its insane arrogance, however, Washington goes on seeking to increase the sacrifices called for from that indomitable people. Aware that there is no alternative for them but that of total withdrawal from Viet-Nam, the Yankees are leveling everything, eradicating from the land of Viet-Nam even the last trace of life; they travel all the roads of infamy towards their diabolical aim of annihilating the people that beat them to their knees and wrecked their plans for domination. Some day all mankind will sit as a unanimous Nuremberg Tribunal in judgment on those who have thus befouled the human spirit."
"2Indignantly, therefore, we listen to the lying allegations of the head of the North American delegation, It is the last straw to have the United States try to place the responsibility for the continuation of the war on the Viet-Namese side. The United States Government never had any reason whatsoever to interfere in the affairs of Viet-Nam; it never had and never will have any right to interfere in the life of that people or of any other. The world is no longer so easily hoodwinked. It knows perfectly well that if an end is to be put to the conflict, the United States must withdraw from Viet-Nam completely and give, up its dreams of imposing the Thieu administration, the creation of Yankee intervention, on the Viet-Namese. What is difficult to understand is why Mr. Rogers comes to this rostrum to repeat arguments that absolutely no one believes."
"2To restore peace to IndoChina there must also be an end to the North American aggression in Cambodia and Laos. The solution of the conflicts in both those countries can only be possible with the acceptance of the political program of the National United Front of Kampuchea and the program of the Laotian Patriotic Front. The non-aligned countries also took a position of solidarity with the Cambodian and Laotian peoples in their struggle against imperialist aggression. The recognition of the Royal Government of National Union of Cambodia as the sole and legitimate representative of that country within the non-aligned movement constitutes yet another proof of the growing co-ordination among the anti-imperialist forces of Asia, Africa and Latin America, and a further proof of the bankruptcy of North American policy. With the restoration of its seat to the legal Government of Cambodia, the non-aligned countries not only performed an act of historic justice and confirmed their adherence to the anti-imperialist principles which gave rise to that movement, but also and at the same time recognized a fact that cannot be disregarded: the Lon Nol clique barely holding out in the Cambodian capital, kept going solely by foreign invaders represents nobody and is the deceptive shadow of a fugitive nightmare. The General Assembly must draw the conclusions"
"from all this: it must drive out the usurpers and restore its seat to the legitimate representatives of Cambodia."
"3The Korean peninsula continues to be a source of tension in the Far East. It is indeed deplorable that once again North American intrigue has succeeded and that it has not been possible to include in our agenda the item regarding the creation of favorable conditions for the peaceful and independent reunification of Korea. Cuba reaffirms its position of principle in this matter: the Assembly must insist upon the immediate withdrawal of all North American troops from South Korea, the dissolution of the so-called United Nations Commission for the Reunification and Rehabilitation of Korea, and the cessation of all interference in the internal affairs of that country."
"3A grave situation generating tensions and threats still exists in the Middle East. The Cuban position on this matter is very well known. Only the withdrawal of the Israeli troops from territories which they have occupied since June 1967, together with full respect for the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, can possibly restore peace in that area."
"3No one can turn a blind eye to the constant provocation and hostile acts of every nature constantly being perpetrated against the People's Democratic Republic, of Yemen. This conduct is encouraged by imperialist interests, particularly North American imperialism, and by 'die feudal circles in the area, afraid as they are that the example of the Yemeni revolution might encourage the Arab masses to try to set up truly revolutionary and popular regimes."
"3The European continent, the breeding-ground of conflicts and of antagonisms throughout history, today offers a promise of peaceful coexistence. That encouraging prospect is the result of the policy of the Soviet Union and other socialist countries, and of their tenacious efforts for peace and international security and the establishment of relations of co-operation among the States of the region. Cuba supports the initiative of the socialist countries, led by the Soviet Union, for the holding of a conference on European security and co-operation."
"3The normalization of relations in Europe and the overcoming of tensions inherited from the last war all call for full recognition of the German Democratic Republic, a sovereign State that is destined to play an outstanding role in the world of today. For the sake of the welfare of all and the cause of international peace, an end must be put to the discrimination against socialist Germany. The admission of that State to the United Nations, and to all other international organizations, is an urgent and necessary measure which brooks no delay."
"3On the agenda of the present session of the General Assembly there are a number of items which touch upon the strengthening of international peace and security. Cuba reaffirms its support for the holding of a world disarmament conference open to participation by all States. We owe the Soviet Union a debt of gratitude for having taken this initiative as well as for its initiative with regard to the question dealing with the prohibition of nuclear weapons and the use of force in international relations."
"3Among the basic problems also to be included in the agenda is that of the elimination of military bases set up by imperialism all over the world, that are so many spearheads of its policy of expansion, subversion, domination and aggression. As Latin American examples I refer you to those set up in Panama, Puerto Rico and the naval base of Guantanamo in Cuba."
"3Cuba shares the deep interest of all nations in peace, and thus we support any measure this Organization may adopt leading to general and complete disarmament, the destruction of all nuclear weapons and the means of delivering them, the liquidation of all existing arsenals and the cessation of the manufacture and testing of nuclear weapons. But in so doing we must draw attention to the fact that these efforts will meet with mighty obstacles as long as the policies of imperialist aggression and exploitation survive in the world. The peaceful endeavors of the United Nations will only be crowned with success when conditions are such that security, independence and the territorial integrity of all States, great or small, are guaranteed; and this can be possible only through the overthrow of the aggressive plans and purposes of imperialism."
"3The retrograde interests of colonialism still stand in the way of the achievement of the Declaration contained in resolution 1514 (XV). In Guinea (Bissau) and Cape Verde, m Angola and in Mozambique, the Portuguese colonialists, armed and supported by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization [NATO] and with international mercenaries, pirates and bandits, ruthlessly put down or fight against the liberation movements. Yet the latter respond daily with more overwhelming blows against their oppressors. The people and the Government of the Republic of Guinea are constantly on the alert, ready to turn back and put down imperialist aggressions. The masses in Namibia, Zimbabwe and South Africa are putting up resolute resistance against Fascist colonialists. Threats and plots by the imperialists continue against the Republic of Guinea, the People's Republic of the Congo, the United Republic of Tanzania and Zambia. The people of Puerto Rico too, encouraged by the recent decisions of international support for their just cause, are widening their struggle against North American colonial domination."
"3By the expressed will of the vast majority of its Members, the United Nations has defined its unequivocal support fur the right of all colonial peoples to independence. Year after year, from this rostrum, the Organization constantly condemns colonialism and resolutions are adopted reiterating the need to put an end, once and for all, to colonialism in all its forms and manifestations."
"4And yet, the decolonizing work of our Organization faces resistance, stubbornness and obstacles well known to all. In the last few years the alliance of the reactionary forces of colonialism and racism and imperialism has been tightened in order to stem the process of the emancipation of the subject peoples, to reduce the United Nations to impotence and to perpetuate the slavery imposed for centuries over a considerable part of mankind. The fight against colonialism has thus reached a critical stage. The General Assembly must now consider concrete measures to ensure fulfillment of its decisions in all those Territories that have yet to achieve their independence. It is now up to the General Assembly to adopt the decisions necessary to break the back of colonialist-imperialist resistance and guarantee to all peoples the exercise of their indisputable right to national independence."
"4Action by all socialist and non-aligned States must be concerted in order to overcome the fatal influence still exerted by North American imperialism and its reactionary customers. Only thus can the United Nations start along the road of effective and decisive assistance to the peoples fighting for their emancipation."
"4The Georgetown Conference defined the joint pro-gramme of the non-aligned nations for the complete and final eradication of colonialism, and very clearly set forth the reason why this disgraceful vestige of the past still survives in much of the African continent. That reason is none other than the political and diplomatic support, the financial and military backing which colonialism and racism receive from the main centers of capitalist power in the world, and particularly from North American imperialism. It is the weapons of NATO that shoot at African fighters. It is the Western monopolies, primarily Yankee ones, which exploit the natural resources of the colonies and swell their bank deposits with the blood and sweat of the enslaved masses. It is the pressures and maneuvers of the Western Powers which hamstring action by the United Nations in favor of the oppressed peoples."
"4For nations with an anti-colonialist mission, which constitute the great majority of this Assembly, the choice could not be simpler: either they yield to imperialist pressure and slow down the process of liberation, or they attack more vigorously so as to isolate and overthrow the imperialists and put an end to colonialism everywhere."
"4There is no other choice but to redouble our militant solidarity with all national liberation movements and give them all the political and material assistance they require to see their struggle culminate in victory. For us, enemies as we are of colonialism, the liberation movements are the rightful rulers of the colonial territories; it is they who have the sole right to assume international legal representation of their peoples, it is they who comply with the terms of the Charter and United Nations declarations, and it is they who deserve the full support of this Organization."
"4My delegation is gratified at the recent decisions taken with regard to the Portuguese colonies and Puerto Rico by the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples because they reflect the determination of that important organ fully to implement the mandate entrusted to it by the General Assembly and to ensure the emancipation of all those Territories which have not yet achieved their independence."
"4We also rejoice at the important decision of the Georgetown Conference to give seats as observers at future meetings of the non-aligned nations to national liberation movements recognized by the Organization of African Unity [OAU], League of Arab States, and the Socialist Party of Puerto Rico."
"4We are entirely in agreement with the decision taken by the Fourth Committee at its 1975th meeting last 27 September to invite as observers the representatives of liberation movements. Cuba considers that representatives of all the subjugated Territories should participate in the work of this Assembly, both in the committees and at the plenary meetings, when items dealing with colonialism, including item 23, are being discussed. No one can challenge the authority of the spokesmen of the combatant peoples to take part in decisions touching on their own future."
"4The Special Committee resolution recognizing the inalienable right of the people of Puerto Rico to self- determination and independence and instructing its working group to undertake a study of the specific steps required to implement the Declaration in resolution 1514 (XV) regarding that Territory [see A/8723/Rev.lt chap. I, para. 85J constitutes an overwhelming and crucial victory for the universal cause of the campaign against colonialism. For 20 years North American imperialism barred the doors of this Organization to the case of Puerto Rico. To maintain that situation, the United States Government resorted to all kinds of pressures, maneuvers and ruses. For 20 years it imposed on this Organization a silence of complicity permitting brutally to stifle the liberating decisions of the Puerto Rican people. For 20 years the United States stood in the way of the fulfillment by the United Nations of its duty regarding Puerto Rico, spurned each and every one of the anti-colonialist decisions adopted here, deceived world opinion, and acted out the grotesque farce entitled \"Associated Free State\" which the racist regime of South Africa is now borrowing to introduce in the Territories which it usurped and now oppresses and plunders. To do this, the United States violated the sovereignty of some Member States, terrified the fearful, broke the resistance of the weak and bent the will of the timorous. Today it still continues"
"4Cuba is confident that this Assembly will approve the report of the Special Committee [Al8723jRev.l] and thereby authorize it next year to adopt and implement decisions regarding Puerto Rico. Few peoples in the world have earned such a clear-cut right to international solidarity as the people of Puerto Rico. In an unequal contest with an incomparably more powerful enemy, kept isolated from the general movement which led to American independence, the prey of all the furies of empire, the Puerto Rican people, the Boricuas, never yielded to their colonizers' assaults. Puerto Ricans offered this continent the longest gaoled political prisoners: Oscar Collazo, Lolita Lebron, Rafael Cancel Miranda, Andres Figueroa Cordero, Irving Flores, Bernardo Diaz Diaz, Juan Antonio Cruz Colon, Rafael Molina Centeno and Manuel Mendez Candia. Prisoners for over two decades, they are the living symbols of the unbreakable rebellion of that people. For keeping intact the spirit of their struggle, those nine patriots remain incommunicado, subject to all sorts of harassment, the victims of a hateful penal system. Among them there are some of great age, others whose health is precarious. We cannot delay the mobilization of all anti-colonialist forces to demand urgently from the North American Government the immediate liberation of those fighters, who sacrificed themselves for the ideals of independence long before this Organization proclaimed"
"5Puerto Rico, a Latin American nation which is an inseparable part of our common country, will one day be independent. The last of the Latin American nations to be held under the colonial yoke, subjected to more intense exploitation by the monopolies than any other, made a military fortress of imperialism, subjected to the most execrable techniques of oppression, threatened with total absorption: Puerto Rico and its cause deserve the widest and most generous support."
"5While seeking support, the Puerto Rican people continues its struggle, continues its unflagging pilgrimage towards independence. It has covered a long road since the day when Bayoan, the Indian of the first endeavours, discovered that the white man was not immortal. It will continue along that road until it is able to prove that Yankee imperialism is also not invincible."
"52- Assistance for the independence of Puerto Rico was a key part of the liberating strategy of Simon Bolivar and a constant theme in the teachings of Jose Marti. For any self-respecting Latin American it is still a duty not to be shirked. Cuba for one will continue unhesitatingly to do its duty, both within and outside this Organization."
"5Cuba and Puerto Rico were merged by history in a single destiny. A century of lonely fighting together under twin flags sealed the single commitment that would link them for ever. In 1893 Jose Marti defined this union as follows:"
"\"In the days to come those of Ponce and San Juan will fall in Yara and the Guasimas, and those of Cuba will fall for Puerto Rico.\""
"5Antagonism between peoples and their oppressors in Asia, Africa and Latin America has reached its most crucial moment. From that struggle will emerge the world of the future, which is already dawning in the socialist countries today, free from exploitation and exploiters. To achieve liberation and to secure their rights the peoples must confront reactionary violence-sometimes brutal, sometimes subtle, but always cruel. Thus to say the least it is unheard of that an item on terrorism should be suggested for inclusion in the agenda, as though that phenomenon did not have very clearly defined roots, as though \"its causes were not known to all, as though violence in the world today were a geometrical abstraction with neither explanation nor content. Cuba has already made known its views regarding this unacceptable maneuver and in due course will continue to fight against both it and any other stratagem used in this Organization to combat the revolutionary movements."
"5International attention is focused increasingly on Latin America. We are living through decisive moments; we are shaken to the very costs by the liberating current that travels through our shaken geography with increasing speed. But we also confront threats and dangers which must keep us constantly alert."
"5The heroic and tenacious efforts made by our people to consolidate our independence and exercise self- determination in different ways call for and deserve the solidarity of all the peoples of the world."
"5Fraternally we greet and support the Chilean people and the Government of Popular Unity which, under the direction of President Salvador Allende, is resolutely addressing itself to the acts of intervention, pressure, intrigue, sabotage, reprisal and threats from North American imperialism, whose latest act was the arbitrary embargo on a shipment of copper decreed by a French court on the shameless insistence of the Yankee monopoly, Braden Kennecott, which itself has for years siphoned off the fruits of the sweat and sacrifice of the Chilean workers. That criminal economic aggression is a shameful violation of the Charter of the United Nations and of the most elementary tenets of international law. We must protest most energetically against this disgraceful affront by Yankee imperialism, trying by most unscrupulous means to undermine and curtail self-determination and the economic development of Chile and other under-developed countries."
"5Cuba welcomes and supports, with fraternal identification, the Peruvian people and the Revolutionary Government of the Armed Force and its President General Juan Velazco Alvarado, who continue with determination along the difficult road towards full recovery of national sovereignty, to regain the wealth of the country and to operate the economic and social transformations that will create the conditions and bases for a new life that will benefit the great majority of its peoples which for centuries had been dispossessed and exploited. My delegation is proud to proclaim that the re-establishment of diplomatic relations between Cuba and Peru and the increasing strengthening of the ties of friendship and co-operation between our two peoples and Governments are a milestone in the process of Latin American liberation, independence, unity and progress."
"5We are equally at one with and welcome the unceasing struggle of the people and the Government of Panama in their claim to sovereign rights over the Canal Zone and in defense of their territorial integrity."
"6Hie events taking place in those three countries are an unequivocal symptom of the fact that Latin America is no longer prepared to submit to the shackles of subordination or oppression by foreigners."
"6I do not believe it vain to stress again that the position of Cuba regarding North American imperialism and its puppets in Latin America and the Organization of American States [OAS] is and will remain firm and unchanging. We say again that we have nothing to negotiate or discuss with the Government of the United States. We demand and do not discuss-the withdrawal of the United States from the naval base in Guantanamo. We demand an end to the blockade and to subversive action. But as the Prime Minister of the Revolutionary Government Commander Fidel Castro has stated again and again, apart from these unshakable demands, Cuba, can never talk with the Yankee"
"Government until the latter gives up its self-appointed role of so-called policeman of Latin America, and until it puts an end to its criminal aggression against the people of Viet-Nam."
"6Once again we reaffirm that Cuba is ready to renew or establish diplomatic relations only with those countries of Latin America that are truly independent and sovereign and that fight to reconquer their national rights, such as Chile and Peru, which, despite the shameful efforts of the North American Government, have assumed that initiative precisely in the exercise of their independence and sovereignty. Once and for all, we state that Cuba will never return to the OAS, a discredited instrument of the North American domination over Latin America. In a word, Cuba will never undertake negotiations of any nature at the cost of its principles."
"6The international community must condemn the imperialist maneuvers and efforts to interfere in the decisions adopted or to be adopted by Latin American peoples in full exercise of their sovereignty and in order to meet their legitimate national aspirations. The activities of the North American copper companies, whose holdings were nationalized by the Chilean Government, on organizing economic reprisals against that country, are inadmissible acts of aggression against a developing country that call for the most vigorous repudiation from the Assembly."
"6On this point I should like to read two paragraphs of the Georgetown Declaration. That Declaration was approved by 58 foreign ministers of non-aligned countries on"
"August of this year:"
"\"The Conference examined the situation in Latin America and expressed full support of the Chilean Government of People's Unity bent upon consolidating their national independence and building a new society of the nationalist measures taken by the Peruvian Government of Peru and its efforts to safeguard the nation's sovereignty and to promote social progress; and also of efforts of the people and government of Panama to consolidate their territorial integrity. The participants welcomed the growth of the efforts being made by the Latin American peoples to recover their natural resources, reassert their sovereignty and defend the interests of their countries. The members agreed that the realization of Latin America's full and true independence is an essential element in the general emancipation process of the developing countries and in the strengthening of international peace and security.\""
"\"The Conference expressed its full support tor all those Governments which, in the exercise of their sovereign rights over the natural resources of their countries, have nationalized the interests of powerful foreign monopolies and restored them to their peoples in the interest of their welfare and national development. The Conference, moreover, condemned all pressures, threats and reprisals against those countries, and pledged itself to foster mutual co-operation among developing countries so as to impart strength to their national endeavor to fortify their political and economic independence.\""
"6Cuba proclaims its full solidarity with all revolutionary movements that are tearing off the halters imposed on the peoples of Latin America by North American imperialism and parasitical oligarchies. Fighting in their own stronghold the main enemy of the peoples, they are making a decisive contribution to the general process of the emancipation of the third world and the cause of international peace and security. The struggle of the Latin American people therefore calls for mass solidarity by all progressive and revolutionary forces. It is surely a duty to support those peoples that arm themselves to obtain freedom, and those that face the repressive brutality of Fascist tyrannies in Brazil, Argentina, Bolivia and Paraguay. To contain the rising waves of revolutionary movements, imperialism organizes counter-revolutionary repression and erases the borders of States. In that fratricidal undertaking it specifically conscripts Brazilian torturers who, overcome by wild delirium, strive to play the role of a minor partner in the North American imperialistic undertaking of subjecting our peoples."
"6But neither directly nor through the services of hired henchmen can Yankee imperialism dam the revolutionary torrent, nor divert our peoples from the road they are on. The bell has rung for Latin America. Our peoples, formerly mere chattels in history, are now beginning to write it. In the past we suffered history; today we create it with our own hands."
"6Latin America is the stage of the intense stubbornness of imperialism confronting the equal stubbornness of the peoples for so long subjected to it. It was in our continent that the first practices of neo-colonialism were essayed. The peoples of Indian America, dark-skinned half-breeds-which Jose Marti called \"our America\", to distinguish it from the \"wily North\"-had conquered their political sovereignty with the sword and the machete at the cost of incredible feats, but they quickly saw that independence was an empty shell, that their countries were still the prey of greedy monopolies that seized their factories, devoured their lands, conquered their mines, and put their national dignity in chains. Peoples imbued with fruitful cultures, the heirs of long and rich traditions of unity and struggle, inhabitants of a continent teeming with natural resources, became the vassals to misery and backwardness, divided by imperialism into feudal holdings."
"6The imperialist torturer lorded it over our lands; the Yankee marines trampled our beaches and outraged our sovereignty; the proconsuls of the North dissolved governments, dictated policies, and administered countries, which had now become colonies and factories. It was the period of the ripe fruit, the seemed backyard, the docile neighbors; but it was also the time of incessant struggle When our peoples lost their best children in their efforts to obtain their full emancipation."
"6In the Caribbean the Yankee imperialists started their career of villainy, excess and violence. On our beaches they tested their weapons and began to build their empire. They snatched Cuba and Puerto Rico; they controlled the Antilles, and they fell with more force than ever on the lands of the South. Jose Marti, who understood more than anyone the tenor of the times in which he lived, foresaw the future and called on the peoples of Latin America to fight for their second and true independence."
"7It, too, was destined to be born on the shores of the Caribbean. With the liberation of Cuba in 1959 there began the new and inexorable process of the destruction of an empire that 50 years earlier had first laid its foundations in Cuba. The Cuban fighters who, on the sands of the Playa Giron, made the Yankees suffer their first American defeat, were opening a new era for our continent; behind their rifles stood an anonymous mass of workers and peasants, of Indians and half-breeds, who had been enslaved for centuries, always humiliated, still unrecognized. It was they who would now march with the decision of those who suddenly find their own strength, with the inspiration of peoples that never bent the knee until final victory was achieved."
"7To Cuba fell the historic privilege of starting the historic march and pointing out the road. Destiny placed this task on the shoulders of a small people inhabiting a very tiny island, lacking natural resources, separated by geography from the rest of its brothers in blood. But it was no coincidence that our small island had been the minute homeland of Marti. The Cuban people knew how to repel aggression, to turn away provocations, to overcome a total trade and economic blockade and the isolation from a world that was and always would be its own. My country drew strength from the inexhaustible quarries of revolutionary ideas. It was always aware that it has a historic mission to perform: that it must be the bulwark of the revolutionary, internationalist principles of Latin American solidarity."
"7People and Government are as one in the immense tasks undertaken; with increasing rhythm the Cuban revolution moves towards the full achievement of its economic, social and cultural objectives. From 1971 industrial production has shown growth rates. Despite being afflicted by natural disasters, agricultural production has also increased gradually. Success in the field of the infrastructure has been significant, particularly regarding building of all kinds. Educational policy, both conceptually, based on the unification of work and study, and materially bespeak a real revolution that is already yielding its first fruits. Forty-four basic secondary schools have been started in the field since 20 September 1971. The rate at which schools are built is also increasing daily."
"7More than 100 school-construction brigades are working assiduously to build basic secondary schools, poly-technical schools, schools for teachers, technological institutes and schools for vocational training. It is estimated that by 1980 we will be able to bring into the area of work and study more than a million young people, as well as tens of thousands of teachers and educational cadres. As far as public health is concerned Cuba leads the rest of Latin America, as was recognized at the recent Conference of Ministers of Public Health in Santiago, Chile. The development of the sugar cane industry is also being carried out with true impetus in Cuba."
"7The domestic financial situation has also undergone a healthy transformation. Through its principled policy, the expansion of its international relations with all continents and its fraternal ties with the countries of what is called the third world, as well as the socialist countries and, above with the Soviet Union, Cuba has laid down and strengthened an international position of which it can justly be proud. Our immediate and long-range prospects, in a word, could not be more clear or more promising."
"7We also note with joy today that Latin America is firmly heading toward full liberation. Throughout the continent rebellion is growing, resistance is spreading, peoples are rising to recover their wealth, to consolidate their independence, to wipe out North American tyranny in one word, to carry out the revolution."
"7But it will not be an easy struggle. North American imperialism will not yield with grace a world that it has despoiled at will. To keep that world it will use all its maneuvers; it will unleash its power and give free rein to its ferocity. But side by side with that process, there is growing in the very heart of imperialist power itself, a new and growing progressive movement that is anti-imperialist and socialist. In his statement of 28 September, the Prime Minister of the Revolutionary Government Commander Fidel Castro, stated:"
"\"We too will be as one with our revolutionary brothers in the United States, as we were with Angela Davis, as we are now, speaking out for the liberation of Billy Dean Smith, and as we will be, with all North American revolutionaries.\""
"7Latin America will triumph. No one and nothing can now hold back our peoples because our march is encour-aged by and imbued with the memory of entire generations sacrificed to prepare the dawn that is now breaking and because they are called into battle by the immortal example of Ernesto Che Guevara, the undisputed commander who from the very heart of America lights the way, and is a shining beacon guiding our steps to final victory."
"17 Mr. President, I am extremely happy to congratulate you on your election to preside over the twenty-eighth regular session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. This is, doubtless, just recognition of your long and fruitful activities in our Organization. It is superfluous to add that the Cuban delegation will offer you whatever co-operation you require in discharging your task."
"17Barely a year ago, in this same hall, we heard true, energetic and hopeful words from a man who has just given his life for the sake of the democratic will of his people, the cause of socialism and human decorum, a man whose proud, enlightening and moving voice still resounds, and doubly so after having been silenced in a titanic struggle. As everyone knows, I am speaking of Salvador Allende, the constitutional President of Chile. That man and that name, now gathered into an immortality which he shares with the greatest heroes and martyrs of our America, cannot be overlooked in this Assembly. For what they symbolize in human decency, in loyalty to principles, in nobility of purpose, in service to country and faith in mankind, that man and that name lay claim on us for a tribute of silence, a bowing of our spirits to the greatness of his, which at the supreme moment rose to immeasurable heights."
"17I would not wish to proceed without first expressing Cuba's great satisfaction at the admission to the United Nations of the German Democratic Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany. That event is of great significance. On the one hand it is proof of the growing universality of the United Nations and on the other hand it is a sign of the changes that are taking place in the world today. We in the Cuban delegation are very happy to offer our fraternal welcome to the representatives of the German Democratic Republic, a socialist country, a peace-loving nation, which has succeeded in overcoming all the harassments, aggressions and intrigues of imperialism until it achieved recognition of its international personality."
"18With the warmth and friendship of neighbours we welcome the achievement of independence by the Commonwealth of the Bahamas and its admission to the United Nations."
"18With our flags flying, Cuba greets the establishment of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau. That historic event irreversibly speeds up the triumph of the anti-colonialist struggle being carried on by the peoples of Angola, Mozambique and Cape Verde and further weakens the position of colonialism, imperialism and neo-colonialism in Africa. The people and the Government of revolutionary Cuba, who have already given full diplomatic recognition to the new State, rejoice at the victorious process of liberation of the people of Guinea-Bissau as though it were our own. The Cuban delegation pays a heartfelt tribute to Amilcar Cabral, the inspirer and guide of that memorable undertaking, vilely murdered by henchmen of imperialism a short while ago."
"18Cuba fully and militantly identifies itself with the legitimate liberating struggle being carried on with unshakeable determination by the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Syrian Arab Republic for the reconquest of their land usurped by Israel and for the recognition of the national rights of the intrepid and suffering Palestinian people. The cause of the Arab peoples is our own cause. In the Sinai peninsula and in the Golan Heights today a battle is also being waged for the liberation of the subjected peoples, the exploited peoples of Africa, Asia and Latin America. Egypt and Syria are in the vanguard of the so-called third world. If necessary, let us give them everything, even our own blood."
"18This dramatic situation, imposed on us by Zionism wedded to imperialism and reaction,, fraught with risks for"
"international peace and security, is attracting the attention of the whole world and, therefore, of this Assembly."
"18The indiscriminate bombing of Damascus, where the buildings of a number of embassies have been wiped out and a number of diplomatic officials have been killed, testifies to the hatred and savagery inherent in the Zionist policy. The non-aligned nations have made a statement this afternoon in which they reaffirmed their total and active solidarity with the Arab countries suffering aggression, and offering all their co-operation and support."
"18The Revolutionary Government of Cuba has made a statement on this matter which I shall refer to later."
"18An over-all glance at the international panorama allows us to see that, although the prospects for the struggle for peace seem clearer and more promising, as well as those for security, progress and social and economic development, there is still a long way to go."
"18Although the process that is now beginning is subject to the inherent fluctuations of the class struggle and ideological contradictions between the capitalist and socialist systems, and to the very aggressive and bellicose nature of imperialism, Cuba is proud of that constructive progress and the concrete manifestations of international detente."
"18For many centuries Europe was the cockpit of history, but the face that the old continent is now turning to us is very different from the one it showed a few years ago. And this is a point we must bring out: the transformation of the climate of tension and hostilities that prevailed in Europe from the end of the Second World War was the result of the dedicated efforts and the policy of principle of the Soviet Union, the main force behind the struggle for peace."
"18But this is no miracle. The Soviet Union was able to plough the furrow of peace, security and co-operation among nations possessing different social regimes by means of the convergence of certain changes and new conditioning factors at the very heart of European society and in the world, which in turn led to the creation of conditions conducive to peaceful coexistence in that part of our planet."
"19The clearing of the atmosphere in Europe, which was the result of that interreaction of factors reflected in the presence in the United Nations of two German States, the agreements signed between those States and between the, Federal Republic of Germany and the Soviet Union, Poland and Czechoslovakia, and the opening of the second phase of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe, will be enhanced by the documents signed during the conversations between the Soviet Union and the United States. The genuine vocation for peace of the Soviet Union obtained agreements and compromises that laid the objective basis for avoiding a nuclear conflict and saving us from the catastrophic risk of a new war of world-wide proportions. This significant victory is the culmination of a tenacious struggle for peace that began with the establishment of the first State of workers and peasants. It is not the result of"
"a policy of positions of strength but of the strength of positions. The stifling stench of Watergate has sapped even _ further the already diminished right of North American imperialism to dictate its policy in global terms."
"19It is obvious that the process of detente, timed and circumscribed by the facts and documents I have mentioned, is beset by shoals and dangers."
"19As long as imperialism survives, the frontiers of detente, peace, security, and co-operation will be precarious. But it is no less obvious that the concrete conditions created by that process favour the struggle of the peoples of Asia, Africa and Latin America for their liberation, social progress and economic development and increase their influence on the evolution of the international situation. It is for these reasons that the countries still belonging to the under-developed world must, if they wish to take part in history and in the forging of the new scientific and technical revolution and the conquest of outer space, join their efforts with those of the socialist countries to widen, strengthen and assure the roads of peace and to choose the most suitable ways and means to overthrow colonial and neo- colonial domination. It is in that direction that the horizon of lasting peace is brightening."
"19The contribution of the indomitable and dedicated people of Viet-Nam to the achievement of that objective has been decisive. Never has a people, confronted by an enemy a thousand times more powerful and cruel beyond conception, done so much for peace, for liberation and for the dignity of man. That people preferred to die rather than bow, and it won. The Paris agreements set forth the ignominious defeat of North American imperialism, but from that day to the present time the puppet regime of Saigon has violated those agreements with unparalleled cynicism. Kissinger initialled the agreements, but Thieu ignores them with the complacency and blessing of Kissinger. And from that day to this, also violating them, the North American Government has constantly sent arms and resources of all sorts to Thieu."
"19On the occasion of his recent visit to the Democratic Republic of Viet-Nam, where he was received by that heroic people and its admirable leaders with overwhelming expressions of fraternal friendship, the Premier of the Revolutionary Government of Cuba, Commander Fidel Castro, at the invitation of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Viet-Nam, visited the zones that had been liberated by the Viet-Namese people. On that historic visit  the first made-by a head of Government to that part of that territory artificially divided from the glorious country of Ho Chi Minh  he spoke the following words in the town of Dong Hon:"
"\"It is impossible to carry out a visit to Viet-Nam without including a tour of the south and through this province of Quang Binh, which is the vanguard of the North and the rearguard of the South.\""
"19He continued saying that very soon the Cuban engineers and architects would start work on the reconstruction of the region and planning of a new capital for the province, which had been so ruthlessly devastated, and added:"
"As far as we are concerned, co-operating with VietNam is a great honour. It is not you who should thank us; it is we who owe you thanks  you, the people of Viet-Nam.\""
"19The position of Cuba regarding the struggle for international peace and security is crystal-clear. From experience, my country knows the direct onslaughts and the whole arsenal of the ruses of imperialism, and we are always therefore on the alert. We have never yielded one iota of our sovereignty, our self-determination or our dignity. We have been isolated. We have been attacked. We have been blockaded, illegally and criminally, for the sole reason that we shook off the imperialist yoke and we chose the socialist road to development. We were even on the verge of being blasted by a North American nuclear attack. From experience also, Cuba knows what it means to have the cooperation and the assistance of the Soviet Union- and the socialist countries and the solidarity of peoples behind us."
"19Because of a community of destiny and in accordance with our international duty, Cuba has supported and will continue to support all the movements of national liberation in Africa, Asia and Latin America, just as we have supported and will support all the peoples and Governments that fight to defend or regain their full independence and their sovereign right to enjoy their natural resources. It is for that reason precisely that Cuba has advocated and continues to support all acts of this Organization tending to strengthen international peace and security. Peace and security wrested from the imperialists objectively become a reduction of their overweening power."
"19Cuba therefore fully supports the initiatives of the Soviet Union for the prohibition of nuclear weapons and of the use of force in international relations, as well as the convening of a world disarmament conference with the participation of all States. The Revolutionary Government of Cuba, because of its socialist nature and foreign policy of principle, is in agreement with measures that will alleviate international tensions. For the same reasons, we shall continue our struggles against colonialism, imperialism and neo-colonialism in all their forms and manifestations as antagonistic to international peace and security. Those activities complement one another. They flow from the different structures and ends of the socialist and capitalist societies and from the real division of the greater part of the world into oppressed and oppressor countries. The complex dynamics of international life and its shocking contrasts call for a new approach and consistent action."
"19One of the most acute problems confronting mankind today is the arms race, with its enormous risks and overwhelming economic burden on the peoples. It is known that in the course of the last few years some steps have been taken towards reducing methods of mass destruction. The use of bacteriological weapons has even been prohibited and they have been abolished."
"20But this problem has given rise to many deliberations, proposals and agreements in the United Nations. However, the difficulties are great, and it is logical to doubt that the matter can be settled by one stroke of the pen. There is therefore no alternative other than to continue the constant struggle and guarantee the holding of a world disarmament conference. It is imperative to stress that among the main items of its agenda should be included that of the dismantling of the military bases scattered by imperialism over almost all continents, which in themselves constitute spearheads of a policy of expansion, subversion, domination and aggression. Suffice it, as examples in Latin America, to mention the bases established in Panama and Puerto Rico and the Guatanamo naval base in Cuba."
"20Among the international events of the period that I have tried to analyse, an outstanding position is occupied by the fourth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Algiers from 5 to 9 September 1973. More than half the members of the international community participated, and they represent the majority of the population of the globe  and many of their heads of State and Government. As observers or as guests a number of other countries, movements and organizations participated. The clamour of the hungry, oppressed, subjected or outlawed people of Africa, Asia and Latin America shook our deliberations. These deliberations concentrated on the great political, economic, social and cultural problems of the under-developed nations within the context of the international situation and of the joint process of the currents of national and social emancipation that in one way or another are upsetting the archaic structures that engender dependency, backwardness, poverty, servitude, deprivation, exploitation and racism."
"20In its review of the international situation, the Conference agreed that the process of detente in Europe was a plausible event but, at the same time, it found that the confrontation of peoples with colonialism, racial discrimination, apartheid, domination and foreign occupation, as well as neo-colonialism, imperialism and Zionism, continued to be unchallengeable realities of our day, and today we are proving it in the Middle East. I have already referred to this duality and I have stressed its causes. There can be no doubt or argument that peace and security are far from prevailing in the Indo-Chinese peninsula and elsewhere in the world. The under-developed nations of Africa, Asia and Latin America are still under the gunsight of the enemies of peace and security."
"20The most outstanding features of the Algiers Conference were its anti-colonialist, anti-imperialist and anti-neo- colonialist stand; its vigorous condemnation of Israel; its open support for the struggle of the peoples of Africa, Asia and Latin America to reaffirm their sovereignty, to recover their natural resources and to make the necessary structural changes to foster and guarantee their liberation and development; its severe criticism of the International Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade; and its request that the monetary crisis, which has now become more acute as a result of the new devaluation of the dollar, should be discussed at the international level; its denunciation of the seditious role of the multinational corporations and its readiness to co-operate with the socialist side. It is these features which shape the results and the prospects which are open for all to see."
"20At that Conference, the Prime Minister of the Revolutionary Government of Cuba and the Chairman of the Cuban delegation, Commander Fidel Castro, expressed views that should be repeated here. He said:"
"\"Any attempt to confront the non-aligned countries with the socialist countries is completely counterrevolutionary and benefits only the interests of the imperialists. To alienate the friendship of the socialist countries is to weaken us and leave us at the mercy of the still powerful imperialist forces. It would be clumsy strategy and colossal political short-sightedness. The success and future of the non-aligned movement must lie in the course of not allowing ourselves to be infiltrated, confused or deceived by imperialist ideology. Only the closest alliance of the progressive forces of the world will give us the necessary strength to overcome the still powerful imperialists, colonialists, neo-colonialists and racists and struggle to achieve the aspirations for justice and peace of the peoples of the world.\""
NA
NA
"20With respect to the main problems raised at the Algiers Conference  almost all of which were submitted to our consideration this year as last year  the Cuban delegation expressed its views on the struggle for international peace and security and related questions, including the significance and the present stage of the Paris agreements on Viet-Nam."
NA
"20Suffice it to add now that, with respect to Viet-Nam, Cuba calls for strict compliance with those agreements by the Government of the United States and the puppet regime of Saigon. But that would not be sufficient for peace to be restored in the Indo-China peninsula. It is also imperative for North American intrigue in Laos and aggression in Cambodia to end  the latter being carried out through Thieu. The promise of peace in Laos and the immediate implementation of the Vientiane Agreement must depend on the establishment of a government of national coalition. The only true Government of Cambodia is the Royal Government of National Union, recognized by the majority of the countries represented here. The restoration of its usurped seat in the United Nations can brook no further delay. The puppets occupying that seat at the moment must be expelled."
NA
"20The arbitrary division of Korea continues to be a great source of tension in the Far East. We agree with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea that conditions should be made favourable for the peaceful reunification, and independence of the Korean people. Cuba reiterates its demand to the Assembly that there be an immediate withdrawal of all North American troops from South Korea, that the so-called United Nations Commission for the Unification and Rehabilitation of Korea be immediately dissolved and that an end be put to any interference in the domestic affairs of the Korean peninsula."
"20The prolonged and explosive crisis in the Middle East has now broken out. We must not forget that imperialist greed to take over the rich oil reserves in the Arab countries is one of the underlying factors of the aggressive, expansionist, annexationist and predatory policy of Israel. It is not by chance that the Sixth Fleet is in the area."
NA
"20I shall now read out the Declaration of our Government:"
"\"The Revolutionary Government of Cuba repudiates the policy of aggression of the Government of Israel, which has once again led to a situation of war in the Middle East."
"\"It is a known fact that the Government of Israel has rejected all forms of settlement of the situation in the Middle East created by its own illegitimate occupation of Arab territories and by its brutal denial of the rights of the Palestinian people."
"\"Instead of bowing to the universal clamour for a return of the occupied territories, the restoration of the rights of the Palestinian people and the political discussion of the problems of the area, the Israeli Government has maintained an aggressive position against the Arab States."
"\"In recent days the concentration of Israeli armed forces on the armistice lines with Syria and the Arab Republic of Egypt and the mobilization of reserves clearly showed the intentions of the Israeli Government, which ultimately unleashed in the area the military situation which today constitutes a grave concern for the peoples of the region and is a serious threat to peace beyond the territories involved."
"\"The Revolutionary Government of Cuba expresses its support for the just positions of the Arab Republic of Egypt and of Syria, its solidarity in the face of the Israeli attacks, and joins in the universal condemnation of the actions of the Government of Israel.\""
NA
NA
"21Despite the stubborn resistance and the obtuse approach of the colonialists and neo-colonialists, the national liberation movements in Africa continue to deliver destructive body blows at them. The emancipation of the people of Guinea-Bissau clears the road for the peoples of Angola, Mozambique and Cape Verde. The peoples of Zimbabwe, Namibia and South Africa valiantly rebel against colonial fascism and its repugnant methods, among which apartheid has a zoological physiognomy. Simultaneously, the manoeuvres, threats and conspiracies of the imperialists have increased against the People's Republic of the Congo, the United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia and the Republic of Guinea, to the point where aggression was committed against them by international mercenary bands organized and supplied by Portugal and NATO. Cuba actively supported the complaint by the Republic of Guinea in the Security Council on this question."
NA
"21In the struggle against colonialism and neo-colonialism in Africa, we are now entering a decisive stage. If the United Nations is unable to take effective measures to ensure the implementation of resolution 1514 (XV) and to break the resistance of the reactionary forces of imperialism and racism that oppose such implementation, it will assume responsibilities that will gravely weaken its authority and prestige."
NA
"21The deteriorated and shattered alliances and self-styled Truman and Eisenhower doctrines have been shattered because they are useless. Formerly, they contended that they would play the role of the international gendarme of reaction, and now they turn to the expedient of encouraging Fascist coups d'etat and economically support and supply with more effective and numerous weapons puppet Governments and praetorian armies and assign to them the foul task of enslaving and brutally repressing their own peoples in order to permit more profitable and safer exploitation. Through their new alliances, you may find their present strategy and tactics in the following areas: South Korea, Saigon, Thailand and Lon Nol in Asia; Portugal, South Africa and Rhodesia in Africa; Israel and Iran in the Middle East; Brazil, Bolivia, Uruguay, Paraguay and now the Fascist junta of Chile in Latin America."
""
NA
"21Their frantic despair at the mess in which they find themselves is obvious, but so too is their contumacy in trying to maintain and extend their tottering domination. That duality to which they were pushed by their growing decomposition, the rebellion of the peoples and the resistance of many Governments prove their perfidious plans and have exposed their two-facedness. An obvious example of that is the Pharisaic torrent of rhetoric poured out on us by the grey eminence of the waning system."
"21At these moments Latin America is confronting a crucial situation. The rising progressive and anti-imperialist movement in our continent has been a fundamental element in the decline of the capacity of the Government of the United States to continue a global imperialist policy. It was precisely in the Caribbean that at the beginning of the now-dying century it started its neo-colonial politics, and it was in that region too that the process of defeat of that policy started. The Cuban revolution, the radiant apex of the radiant undertakings that today celebrate their one hundred and fifth anniversary, started the victorious march of the second independence called for by Jose Marti."
"21In the year that followed we were clearly able to see the antagonisms and the differences between Yankee imperialism and the Latin American peoples, which were growing and becoming more obvious. If at the beginning of 1960 efforts were made to propagate the fraud of representative democracy and to gild the lie of the Alliance for Progress confronting a socialist Cuba, at the beginning of the present decade there were already some Governments that had taken positions to defend their independence, their sovereignty and their natural resources."
"21In Peru the Revolutionary Government of the Armed Forces strengthened its nationalist positions. The Government of Popular Unity of Chile was trying to carry out, despite the Fascist escalation of reaction and imperialism, its singular purpose of strengthening the bases of the socialist road to development within constitutional machinery created by the dominating classes to safeguard their own interests. In Panama the people and the Government joined to call for full recognition of their sovereignty, jurisdiction and rights over the Canal and the Zone, strengthened by the almost unanimous support of the Security Council."
"21With their revolutionary acts and their votes the people of Argentina overthrew the dictatorship. The countries of the Andean Pact adopted restrictive measures on foreign investment. The challenge to the illegal diplomatic blockade of Cuba grew. The injections of camphor oil and plastic surgery were empty resources to revive the moribund and rotten OAS. At the fifteenth session of the Economic Commission for Latin America [ECLA], held in Quito in March, the United States stood alone. It saw the aggressive pact of Rio de Janeiro buffeted by criticism and the incompatibility of socialism with the Latin American continent was suddenly challenged. Puerto Rico more and more took up the cudgels for its shattered national rights assumed by North American imperialism in 1898 and its inalienable sovereignty and right to independence and self-determination were recognized by the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples in the United Nations."
"21The imperialists' strategy of isolating Argentina, Chile and Peru or subjecting them to their policy through the conversion of Brazil into a dependent imperialist State and their strengthening of reaction in Uruguay, Paraguay and Bolivia, satellites of colonial fascism, seemed to face almost insuperable obstacles. The course of the development of this growing polarization of the progressive and anti-imperialist forces, which irremediably undermined their dire domination of the years of the past, led North American imperialism to concentrate its efforts on the overthrow of the Government of Popular Unity, inciting the armed forces to treason and giving all their help to the dominating classes, to the reactionary parties and the Fascist groups of Chile."
"21I shall now, if you will allow me, cast a somewhat brutal light of truth on what occurred in Chile and what is still taking place. It is a duty that I am fulfilling as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Cuba, as a Marxist-Leninist revolutionary, as a comrade of Salvador Allende and as a simple human being. I stress this last, because I wish radically to differentiate myself from those who here represent the bestiary and the forest."
"22The henchmen of colonial fascism and of imperialist propaganda have tried to cast a curtain of pretences, fallacies, calumnies, scurrility, adulterations and vile accusations to disguise their machinations, their felonies, their knavery, their infamy, their crimes and their responsibility. That was also the clumsy intention behind the ridiculous, lying, petulant, cowardly and low so-called \"I accuse\" of the ex-Minister of the Government of Popular Unity and rented Vice-Admiral, who dishonours this Assembly, bearing the stigma of traitor on his brow and his bloody garments after the murder of thousands of Chileans. The hired hand of Enrique Bernstein, ex-Director of International Relations of the Government of President Allende and confessed Christian Democrat, is not unscathed in that filthy, low, primitive and repulsive libel."
"22But it is the facts that will seat the presumptuous accuser in the dock of the accused."
"22Salvador Allende assumed the presidency of the Republic of Chile by will of the people expressed in elections on 4 November 1970. Between the elections in which he triumphed and that act were many plots hatched by the United States Embassy as well as by transnational corporations like the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation [777], which tried to stop him from acceding to the presidency through an explosion of blind, exasperated and savage violence. The Fascist escalation of reaction and imperialism culminated with his heroic fall on II September. The unleashing of the most unbridled terror began the day after the elections. The murder of the head of the Army, General Rene Schneider, because of his true and consistent position was the tragic signal that triggered the"
"Fascist war against the Government, the Popular Unity Party, the leftist movements, the working classes and the progressive levels of the population  something similar to the burning of the Reichstag by the Nazis, which unleashed a manhunt for Communists, socialists, anti-Fascists, Jews and foreigners that today is being exceeded in its unbelievable ferocity by the junta."
"22This criminal madness of the desperate, as President Allende called them, was clear proof of the appearance of fascism in Chile, although they still hypocritically mouthed democratic slogans. Their main centres were the brutal National Party and the Lombrosian group \"Patria y Libertad\", seconded, with their own aims and ambitions in view, by the rightist leaders of the so-called Christian Democratic Party and above all by their main leader, ex-President Eduardo Frei, who, as Machiavelli might have said, combines the cunning of the fox, the treachery of the panther and the appetite of the hyena. Sometimes disguised, sometimes openly barefaced, we see the manifestations of that disgraceful plotting, the North Americans pulling the strings. The armed forces, under the then leadership of a man who was true to his constitutional obligations, apparently remained in their barracks and their highest officers never missed an opportunity of showing their loyalty, professionalism and non-political stand. And among the most obsequious and garrulous was the head of the junta, General Augusto Pinochet, a convicted Nazi and gloating murderer of the workers, for example during"
"22In that adverse situation, President Allende began his democratic renewing of socialist efforts, sincerely convinced that he would be able to fulfil his programme ancl lay the groundwork for a more just and humane society in Chile, as he stressed in his first statement to the people after assuming the presidency."
"22The election of a Marxist leader to preside over a bourgeois Republic in a country which was dependent and under-developed was an exceptional event in history, and at the same time fraught with unknown quantities. President Allende was also aware of the other dimension of the process that he was leading. He knew this at all times. But, until the Fascist uprising took place, he constantly resorted to all constitutional and legal ways and means to travel the road that he had drawn for himself. To all lights, it was an extraordinarily important experiment he was carrying out. to benefit all people; and it was for this reason that from the very outset that undertaking earned the sympathy and support of all the progressive anti-imperialist and revolutionary forces of the world."
"22The heritage handed to President Allende was a gigantic hurdle that he had to surmount in order to fulfil his programme: a poor country; high unemployment; a society plagued by inequalities; the dominating classes safe behind their privileges; unbridled inflation; a bankrupt economy; and a State indebted to the level of $4,000 million, the heavy burden of the ostentatious policies of Frei, with his subservience to foreign interests. There was also a parliament whose voting power lay with the dominating classes; a judiciary which owed its existence to the interests of the status quo; a bureaucracy undermined by reaction, and armed forces which called themselves constitutional. This series of realities and facts, furthermore, coincided with a reduction of the price paid for copper, the main export of Chile, from 75 cents a pound to 40 cents."
"22It was as urgent as it was necessary to meet the burning needs of the people and therefore to undertake the structural transformations that could contribute to that end. But he had hardly effectively put into implementation agrarian reform when the monopolizing of goods and the sabotage of agricultural production took place. Hardly had the nationalization of the great copper industry, then in the hands of North American enterprises, been approved, when the United States Government froze all the international credits that the Chilean Government had a right to call on, and organized a large-scale operation designed to ruin the economy and provoke a coup d'etat. The bourgeois parties and the Fascist groups would co-ordinate their activities to the same end and the mass communications media, in the hands of magnates and foreigners, started the most slanderous, violent and cowardly campaign that can be recalled. One would have to have been in Chile justly to assess the abject magnitude of this convergence of interests, closely yoked."
"22From propaganda they went quickly to action, both within and outside parliament  through the reactionary laws, seditious strikes on the part of the management, attacks against the leaders of the Popular Unity Party, street demonstrations in the aristocratic neighbourhoods, calls to the armed forces to overthrow the constitutional Government, and conspiracies in which, under the leadership of the CIA [Central Intelligence Agency], the high leaders of the Christian Democratic Party participated, as well as the National Party, the Group \"Patria y Libertad\", and the big bosses of the dominating classes, the high-salaried professionals, the newspaper El Mercurio, and the officers advocating a coup d'etat, particularly in the navy and air force."
"22In those complex and hostile circumstances, the Government of Popular Unity struggled for three desperate years to fulfil its programme. They did what they could   and even more  to help the Chilean people. But, as the Prime Minister of the Revolutionary Government of Cuba said in the statement he made at the enormous tribute paid in our country to President Salvador Allende, and as a gesture of solidarity to the Chilean people:"
"\"At least in these three years he and his workers and peasants understood that in the presidency of the Republic there was not a representative of the oligarchs, of the landowners and the bourgeois, but a representative of the humble, of the workers, a true representative of the people, who worked for the people despite the enormous difficulties confronting him. President Allende fully understood the difficulties and understood the dangers, but he saw fascism being reborn; he saw the conspiracies falling one upon the heels of the other. And, confronted by that combination of forces fed by imperialism, he had only one decision to make, and that was to defend the process even at the cost of his own life.\""
"23Let us listen to what he said in Santiago on 4 December 1971. It was a statement of farewell to the Prime"
"Minister, Commander Fidel Castro, and it was a statement that his generous blood consecrated a few days ago:"
"\"I tell you quite calmly, with complete serenity, I am not made to be an apostle, nor to be a Messiah. I do not possess the qualities for martyrdom. I u a social fighter who is fulfilling a task, a task that was entrusted to me by the people. But let those who try to turn back history and ignore the majority will of the people of Chile understand that, without being a martyr, I shall not go back. Let them know that I shall leave the palace of La Moneda when I have fulfilled the mandate entrusted to me by the people. Let them know. Let them hear. Let them understand it deeply. I shall defend the Chilean revolution and I shall defend the Government because this is the mandate entrusted to me by the people. I have no other alternative. Only by riddling me with bullets will they end my will to fulfil the programme of the people.\""
"And it was those self-same words that he repeated to others, and even to me, when he was speaking in the presence of his ex-rival for the presidency, Radomiro Tomic, and our Ambassador to Chile, Mario Garcia Inchaustegui."
"23The President of Chile fell fighting. He did not stop shooting his rifle until bullets cut off his life. The last hours of this brave fighter are known because of the unchallengeable eyewitness report of his daughter, Beatriz, who was with him until she was ordered to leave, with other heroic women who were with him, because their lives were thought to be precious for the future struggle, and the testimony of some survivors, recently mentioned by the Prime Minister of Cuba. While they tried to hide it, the Fascist henchmen know full well that President Allende fell fighting against the uniformed pack of common criminals."
"23But before rapidly going over those shattering and shattered hours, I feel it necessary, even briefly, to refer to the background preceding 11 September."
"23Lies are knowingly spoken when it is said  and you heard it yesterday  in a shameful effort to justify the overthrow of the constitutional regime and the nightmare of slaughter, murder, torture, destruction, raids and persecutions being lived through by Chile, that the Government of Popular Unity was preparing to exterminate the officers of the armed forces. What was being plotted was precisely the opposite: the Dantesque spectacle that has shaken the world."
"23The armed forces were never given much attention as regards their institutional development before the Government which was overthrown; nor were they ever called, as President Allende called them, to join in the national efforts at development and to share the responsibilities of government. Three high-ranking officers of the armed forces were in the Council of Ministers from October 1972 to May 1973. Even when Salvador Allende visited the United Nations he designated as Vice-President of the Republic the Commander-in-Chief of the Army, General Carlos Prats. This trust and co-operation between the Government of Popular Unity and the armed forces rested on the understanding between the Government and the constitutionalist faction of the army and, significantly, occurred simultaneously with the efforts to overthrow the Government by the Fascist sectors of the army, the navy and the air force."
"23That sector, openly or clandestinely, conspired since Allende took over the presidency. But it did not do so alone; it conspired with the reactionary parties and North American imperialism, the true leader and ideologist of the Fascist coup. It organized  and I want to stress this  eight special operations of intelligence, subversion and counter-intelligence, under the direction of the Pentagon, the State Department, the CIA and the transnational corporations acting together with, among other Chilean capitalists, ' Matte, Alessandri, Bulnes and Edward, and with the reactionary parties and the Fascist groups. We have irrefutable proof of what I am saying and of the fact that the leaders of the Christian Democratic Party nominated a representative to these anti-national activities, a man called Felipe Amunategui, as well as Andres Donoso. To prove this I shall give the code names of three of those seditious operations: Centauro, Yellow Star and Marty."
"23The military institutes, moreover, maintained excellent relations with the Pentagon. While the Government of Popular Unity found its international credit frozen, the institutes received from the Government of the United States millions of dollars and military equipment."
"23According to reliable testimony, the aims of the CIA in overthrowing Allende were the following: to restore the economic and political domination of the United States in Chile; to liquidate the relations of friendship and cooperation with Cuba and the socialist countries; to provoke the economic and financial collapse of the country in order to create conditions conducive to a Fascist coup; to jeopardize the participation of the armed forces; to ensure the overthrow of President Allende before 13 November; and to establish a dependent Government which would adopt the imperialist economic philosophy and serve the economic objectives of the United States in that country."
"23The abortive military coups of March and September 1972 showed the internal struggle in the armed forces between the sector that wanted the coup and those who respected the law, led by General Prats, General Pickering and General Sepulveda. But it was clearly seen that the strength of the armed forces was deteriorating when an armoured unit made an unsuccessful attack against the Moneda Palace on 27 June 1973. The Generals mentioned, leading their troops, put down that coup. As of that moment, it became obvious to the constitutionalist sector of the armed forces that its capacity to maintain internal unity and to contain the Fascist officers was being seriously challenged."
"23What came after was a multipronged political, military and popular action by President Allende to preserve the constitutional regime and avoid an armed confrontation, although he was ready to fight. Surrounded by increasing rumours of imminent army uprisings, in August there occurred  financed, organized and directed by American imperialism  the insurrectional strike of the truck-drivers which started in 1972 as an essay, to be joined by the professionals and an increasing number of tradesmen. The desire for the coup grew and became more forceful. The reactionary parties, with the Christian Democrats in the vanguard, broke off the dialogue proposed by President Allende and the Chamber of Deputies, by a mechanical vote of the majority, urged the Fascist military group to"
"establish a coup with a statement to the effect that the Government of Popular Unity had shattered constitutional order."
"240. The terrorist attacks on persons and public services continued. Buildings in Santiago  and I have seen this with my own eyes  were covered with this sinister slogan: \"Djakarta is near.\" But the armed forces, those same armed forces that yesterday slaughtered the unarmed population of Lima, that later massacred the workers and today, in the name of law and order, commit crimes and tortures, did nothing then to stop the seditious escalation."
"241. President Allende called the Popular Unity leaders and the leaders of the Central Unica de Trabajadores (Labour Union) and told them that, in the light of the serious military situation, he had decided, in accordance with the will of the army leaders, to retire the Generals implicated in the projected Fascist coup. Among others, President Allende spoke with General Pinochet, who was at that moment interim Chief of the Army, and prepared an anti-insurrectionist plan."
"24More than half the high-ranking officers refused to condemn the ill-treatment of General Prats. Suddenly, among the Generals who supported the Minister of Defence was found Pinochet."
"24General Prats presented his irrevocable resignation to the President and Pinochet, like a witch in Macbeth, advised the President to agree to the resignation to appease the high-ranking officers of the navy and the air force, then committed himself to assume leadership of the army and to retire the other conspirators. But the only retirements he signed were those of Prats, Pickering and Sepulveda  all loyal to the troops and to the Government."
"24On 24 August the main officers of the navy met at Valparaiso and when their Commander-in-Chief, Admiral Montero, a true man of honour, arrived he was confronted with a request for his resignation. He replied that he could do so only to the President of the Republic, President Allende. While the Vice-Admiral who represents dishonour, crime and fascism is here with impunity, demonstrating his foolishness with his bloodstained hands, on that same 11 September Admiral Montero was arrested and replaced by a raging gorilla, a member of the Fascist group. Officers and other ranks opposed to the coup were detained or murdered. Generals Guillermo Pickering, German Sepulveda, Alberto Bachelet and Jose Maria Sepulveda, the leaders of the carabineros up to 11 September, were arrested also."
"24The American Ambassador, Nathaniel P. Davis, in charge of Soviet affairs during the cold-war years and closely linked to Howard Hunt  who is involved in the filth of Watergate  travelled to Washington a week before the coup and returned on the eve of the coup. The State Department will later admit without blushing or without scruples that it knew of the planned date."
"24These facts are clear. They may be twisted or they may be denied, but the facts still stand."
"24At dawn on 11 September, the navy rebelled in Valparaiso. Their ships had sailed the night before, allegedly to"
"participate in the so-called \"UNITAS\" operation, but they came back, they crawled back into port like foreigners, escorted by North American ships on combat alert. President Allende, as soon as he knew of it, went to his office after providing for the protection of his home where his wife was. The Palace also heard that Pinochet was false, a disgrace and a traitor. The army and the air force had joined the Fascist coup. The moment of armed confrontation had struck."
"24But President Allende, with a small number of ministers, collaborators and comrades and friends decided to resist. That man, who did not tire of advocating tolerance, respect for the law and peaceful settlement as well as the respect for the Constitution, grew until he achieved the stature of a hero. He replied to bullets with bullets. He held at bay the aggressors for a number of hours. He put a tank out of commission with a bazooka shot. He courageously resisted the fire of artillery, the attacks of the tanks, the bombing by planes and danger from fire. A number of times he was urged to surrender. He was offered a plane to take him to any other country with his family and those he might choose. His answer was unshaken: \"The traitorous generals do not know what a man of honour is.\" He remained calm, determined, courageous, at his battle-station and he would say later with lapidary sobriety: \"This is the way we write the first page of this story. My people and America will write the rest.\" He saw many of his comrades fall before his very eyes, and among them his very close friend, the news correspondent Augusto Olivares, who stood out in those epic hours. While"
"24And so the Fascists took over the ground floor of the Palace and, after a hard fight, occupied part of the upper floor. In the red room, surrounded by a handful of courageous men, the President was waiting for them with a smoking rifle. He advanced resolutely on the Fascists, and a shot tore open his stomach, but he continued to fire on the murderers, leaning against a piece of furniture, until a second shot shattered his chest and sent him to the floor. Falling, his bloody body was riddled with bullets."
"25Those who survived this almost legendary scene regrouped, counter-attacked and threw out the Fascists"
", from the upper floors. Members of his personal guard carried the corpse of Salvador Allende to his office. They sat him in the presidential seat, they placed across his chest his presidential sash, and they shrouded him in the Chilean flag."
"25As Prime Minister Commander Fidel Castro has said:"
"\"Seldom in history was a similar page of heroism written. Never in this continent has any president played such a dramatic role. Salvador Allende showed more dignity, more honour, more courage and more heroism than all those Fascist officers together. His gesture of - incomparable greatness sank forever in ignominy Pinochet and his accomplices. His exemplary conduct morally destroyed fascism in Chile. Very often the unarmed thought has been overcome by brute force, but now we"
"can say that never has brute force met such resistance carried out in the military field by a man of ideas whose weapons were always the word and the pen.\""
"25For more than 24 hours, the Fascists were silent and did not make known the death of President Allende. He was buried in secret. Neither his wife nor his sister, who accompanied his pine coffin in a plane of the armed forces among stolid and insensible officers, was allowed to see his body."
"25But his last words will continue to vibrate in the air as an unchallengeable mandate:"
"\"Workers of my country, I have faith in Chile and its destiny. Other men may overcome this bitter and grey moment, when treason is trying to impose itself. But you must know that, much sooner than later, the great road will open through which the free man can go in his effort to build a better society. Long live Chile! Long live the people! Long live the workers! These are my last words, being sure that the sacrifice will not be in vain. I am convinced\"  listen carefully  \"that there will be at least a moral sanction that will punish crime, cowardice and treason.\""
"25The Fascists also attacked our embassy, flouting the Vienna Convention, international law and the Charter of the United Nations. They wounded our Ambassador, who is present here, and an official of the embassy. But to their bravado and threats we always answered, \"We shall defend the embassy, which is Cuban territory, until the last man falls.\" The complaint of Cuba on the matter is still before the Security Council."
"25Furthermore, the Fascists did not stop at harassing diplomats and technicians of socialist countries and diplomatic officials of capitalist countries. In a word, they gave proof of their barbarous contempt for civilization."
"25The first act of the Fascist foreign ministry was to break off diplomatic relations with Cuba, and we are proud: it is comforting and strengthening to us; with murderers, torturers and anthropoids we want no ties of any sort."
"25When the Cuban diplomatic personnel left the country, the Government of Sweden took over the representation of our interests. The Swedish Ambassador, Harald Edelstam, has in these dark and dangerous days behaved with a zeal and a solicitude which do honour to Swedish diplomacy and the Swedish Government."
"25Four of the very few Cubans who were still in Chile were able to get into Argentina after they had been abandoned in the Andes without adequate food or clothing in a temperature of 20 degrees below zero. An Argentine patrol found them and took them to their barracks, giving them help and food, as was to be expected. We do not know what happened to the other two, who were arrested. Anything could have happened to them."
"25A Cuban merchant vessel, the Playa Larga, was also treacherously shelled and bombed in international waters. The captain decided to leave Valparaiso since he lacked"
"safeguards for his ship and its crew. One of the crew members had been arrested and ill-treated on land by the mutinous Fascists. The Playa Larga was followed and shelled by the destroyer, the Blanco Encalada, and bombed by planes and helicopters. It was so seriously damaged that it was about to sink. Called upon a number of times to surrender and return to Valparaiso, the answer of the captain and the crew was that they preferred to scuttle the ship rather than hand themselves over to the Fascist authorities. I The Playa Larga was finally able to escape the criminal persecution and set sail for El Callao, where it arrived escorted by the Cuban merchant vessel Marble Island, which, for the same reasons, did not continue its trip to Chile. This gross violation of freedom of navigation and international law is already also before the Security Council."
"26The unscrupulous support of North American imperialism to the Fascist junta is brought out even more by its cynical complicity in the harassment and provocations against Cuban merchant vessels beyond Chilean frontiers. When preparing to cross the Panama Canal on its way to Havana, the merchant vessel Marble Island, flying under the Somali flag but under charter to the Mambisa Steamship Company, presented a request to pass through the Canal. The captain and crew were Cubans and they were told that the official in charge of the Canal had been told to arrest the ship because of an action in rem by a Chilean sugar company which demanded a payment of $4,235,298. This conspiracy on the part of the North American authorities of the Canal and the Chilean enterprise are political reprisals that violate the rights of free navigation through that international waterway. The captain and the crew of the Marble Island rejected the order of arrest, refused to land, raised anchor and left for the Pacific Ocean."
"26A few days ago the Cuban merchant vessel Imias coming from Japan to our country was also arrested in the Canal, in the Gatun Lake area, and is virtually isolated by the North American authorities in connivance with the Fascist junta of Chile."
"26The arresting of a ship owned by the Cuban State is an illegal act which has grave implications, even for third parties. Violations of the norms of international law which recognize and safeguard the sovereign immunity of ships belonging to States constitute a serious threat to those using the Panama Canal, subject as they are to the same decisions by those who, according to the international regime agreed to, are required to guarantee freedom of navigation, security and neutrality of their waters. The captain and crew of the Imias are ready, in keeping with the heroic traditions of our merchant marine, to resist any attempt to confiscate the ship by force."
"26The statement by the Panamanian Foreign Office on this situation fraught with serious risks for international peace and security describes the matter very clearly and very precisely."
"26We denounce before the General Assembly this new act of piracy on the part of North American imperialism and we warn the Assembly that, if the Imias is not freed by"
"those who have seized it, the Revolutionary Government of Cuba will take the necessary measures and steps to do so, both within and outside the United Nations."
"26The insatiable and bloodthirsty repression unleashed by the Fascist junta can only be compared to that of the Nazis in the occupied countries: summary executions, organized massacres, destruction of settlements, bombing of universities, horrifying tortures, concentration camps, the handing over of Latin American exiles to hangmen, night raids, burning of books, outlawing of political parties, banning of trade unions, the closing down of Parliament, aggression against embassies, attacks on merchant vessels, persecution of foreigners, violations of international law, and a state of siege. In one word: the resurrection of the dark and dreary spirit of the Middle Ages in the middle of the twentieth century."
"26This interminable escalation of terror sets the conscience of mankind on edge. From all parts of the world, without distinction for political, social or religious ideologies, voices have been raised in horror at this orgy of blood and calling for an end to repression. \"Slaughterhouse in Santiago\" is the title of an article in Newsweek magazine. But these hardened murderers continue their ghastly tasks, blind and deaf to all human appeals. That was and is fascism."
"26World public opinion must be galvanized to call for respect for the life of the political leaders and the men and women of the country held in improvised gaols or confined in inhospitable islands, their heads against the very edge of the bayonets or their chins resting on a gun barrel. Luis Corvaian, General Secretary of the Communist Party of Chile, is gaoled and subject to court-martial, accused of alleged crimes of treason against the country, a shameless invention of those who have dishonoured their country, those who have opened their country to all sorts of attacks because of their real treason, crimes and thefts. They have not as yet shot him but they can do so at any moment. Have there not been more than 10,000 shot and massacred there,"
"* including the aged, women and children? According to the Washington Post, the CIA  which participates in this blood-bath  has assessed at 3,000 the number of those killed in the first days following the coup."
"26The Chilean people will now have to embark on the long and arduous armed struggle against colonial fascism, but they will find echo and support in the officers, non-commissioned officers and soldiers who remain loyal to the Chilean people and to their constitutional promises \"and pledges. By their own experience the peoples of Brazil, Uruguay, Paraguay and Bolivia know what the cost is, as did the countries that were earlier overrun by the Nazis. The Fascists will receive credits, weapons, and advisers from imperialism and its Latin American satellites. I should correct that statement and change the tense and say that they are already receiving them. Considerable North American credit for the purchase of wheat, and the arrival in Santiago of numberless specialists in counter-insurgency, are nothing but the prelude. The CIA with all its resources is, and will be, the centre of repression. But we are convinced that the Chilean people will wage that war until the last consequences are faced. And, at the end, their revolutionary act will bury fascism in its own filth."
"26In this new epic struggle, the Chilean people will not be fighting alone. They will have the solidarity and support of Cuba and the socialist countries, of the non-aligned nations  in accordance with the resolution adopted at the Algiers Conference  and the support of all the revolutionary people and progressive Governments in the world. That solidarity and that support will not fail them."
"27But, over and above all, the Chilean people can count in that decisive battle, as the Prime Minister of Cuba said, on \"the banner, and the immortal person of President Allende. President Allende has given his people the highest example of heroism that can be offered. President Allende has embodied the best of patriotism, of valour, of honour and the combative spirit of the Chilean people\"."
"27The Cuban delegation renews its deep faith in the destinies of Chile and for the records of this Assembly we reiterate the last words of the revolutionary panegyric uttered by Comrade Fidel Castro:"
"\"Eternal glory for Salvador Allende, together with Che, together with Marti, Bolivar, Sucre, San Martin, O'Higgins, Morelos, Hidalgo, Juarez and all the great men who gave their lives for the freedom of our continent. The Chilean people will squash fascism.\""
"Country or death! We shall win!"
"Mr. President, the Cuban delegation wishes to express joyous, friendly and fraternal congratulations on your election as President of the twenty-ninth session of the General Assembly. In addition to your known reputation as a revolutionary fighter in the heroic struggle for the national liberation of Algeria, you combine the skill, competence and prestige needed for such a delicate and responsible position."
"However, we must recognize that the meaning of the unanimous election that brought Abdelaziz. Bouteflika, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria, to the presidency of the Assembly goes beyond the framework of the outstanding personal qualities and abilities he brings to his duties. First and foremost, it bespeaks international recognition of the outstanding role played at this time by the peoples and countries of the third world, and, within that vast and stirring group, particularly those which have achieved their independence or are struggling to do so on the African continent. Furthermore, it symbolizes the new situation created by the growing convergence of the non-aligned nations, the democratic, progressive forces and the socialist countries in the arduous and determined under-taking to establish a just international order and to eradicate colonialism, imperialism and neo-colonialism as well as racism in all its forms and manifestations. We can conclude, therefore, that in this specific case those who honor that noble cause, by their words and by their deeds, are in themselves honored. The Cuban revolution greets the Algerian revolution for this well-earned distinction."
"We are also very happy to express our gratitude to Mr. Leopoldo Benites for the excellent work he did as President of the General Assembly during the twenty-eighth regular session and the sixth special session which followed it."
"The Cuban delegation wishes to renew its expression of friendship to the sister Republic of Honduras, recently beset by a devastating hurricane. My country has itself experienced the blind fury of that tragic concert of shattering rain, wind and tidal waves. From the very beginning of this sad event, Cuba, true to its Latin American and internationalist duties, offered the Honduran people all possible assistance within our means."
"The admission to the United Nations of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, the Republic of Bangladesh and the island of Grenada is a matter of great satisfaction for Cuba. While they are all milestones on the road to the universality of the United Nations, what is more important is the significance of their constitution as independent nations; it strengthens and accelerates the process of decolonization. The advent of the people of Guinea-Bissau to independence is the glorious culmination of a long and arduous fight that earned the admiration and solidarity of all corners of the world."
"In accordance with its revolutionary principles, Cuba is committed to the battle being waged by the peoples of Africa, Asia and Latin America against colonialism, imperialism and neo-colonialism and, therefore, we celebrate as our own the triumph of the people of Guinea-Bissau. The Cuban people was not merely a spectator at that memorable epic. We supported it. We assisted them. Our young fellow-country-man, Pedro Rodriguez Peralta, was one of the international fighters who personally took up arms in defense of freedom and fought shoulder to shoulder with the brave and dedicated warriors of Guinea- Bissau. Wounded and captured in combat, he faced, with the unshakable determination of a Cuban revolutionary, torture and harassment in the horrible dungeons of Portuguese fascism."
"Am Hear Cabral, the supreme guide and national hero of the people of Guinea-Bissau, was our friend, our comrade and our brother. He died, vilely murdered on the very threshold of victory. But today, crowned with laurels, he is reborn in the thoughts, hearts and will of his people. He will continue to point the way even though he is dead. Let us not mourn his death. Those who lead peoples receive a lasting tribute by having their work carried on."
"The people of Mozambique, led by the Frente de Libertagao de Mozambique [FRELIMO] is also now in the process of total decolonization through a fixed- term agreement signed with the new Government of Portugal, which is to a large extent the result of the struggle for national liberation in its colonies. Yet we must be alert to the maneuvers and the plots of reactionary white settlers in connivance with South Africa and the imperialist powers to frustrate the freedom movement in Mozambique, Cape Verde and Angola."
"We must in all fairness rely on the commitment proclaimed in this hall by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Portugal [2239th meeting]. The new Portuguese Government has, by its actions, confirmed its anti-colonialist and anti-Fascist policy. As a consequence of the onerous legacy it received from the outmoded regime overthrown by the armed forces of the people, the new Government of Portugal faces difficulties and problems. But it is obvious that after the recent changes in the structure of power resolutely supported by the broad masses and by the revolutionary and progressive political parties, it is cleansing and strengthening its foundations and, among the harassments and resistance of an outmoded economic order that is still intact, it appears to be heading towards democratization of the country."
"1The admission of the Republic of Bangladesh war* a long-delayed act of justice. Cuba fully supported the inalienable right of that people to national independence and was one of the first States to recognize it as a free and sovereign country."
"1Grenada is an island near to our own and, like Cuba, forms part of the same Caribbean historic constellation, a dialectic synthesis of races, languages and cultures and struggles which dovetail and fertilize each other. A common colonial and neo-colonial past generated our under-development and our dependency. But that same past gave birth to our rebellion and to our determination to be free. Cuba offers its friendship, its support and its co-operation to that island."
"1The establishment of Grenada as an independent country means one link less in the colonialist chain of the Antilles. But there are still fetters to shatter and therefore freedoms to win. Among the other nations of the area Puerto Rico is still subjugated and under the colonialist domination of the United States, against the sovereign will of the people. But, sooner rather than later, it will be completely independent and thus entitled to enter the United Nations. Fulfilling the mandate it received from Jose Marti, Cuba will never cease to help the people of Puerto Rico in their patriotic aim."
"1Providing undeniable evidence of the fact that the struggle for national liberation is invincible in Africa, Asia and Latin America, these three new States which have acceded to independent life wilt give a lasting impetus to completion of the process of decolonization in the world. Some African* nations are still living under the yoke of colonial oppression and racism. It is our bounden duty to contribute to their immediate liberation through material, political and moral assistance. Africa cannot be a free continent as long as countries are suffering from colonialism, neo-colonialism or racism, as Latin America and Asia cannot be independent as long as vestiges of colonialism or neo-colonialist regimes are to be found there."
"1It must be clear to everyone that the process of international detente - taking place in Europe is of vital importance to every country and every people. The basic liquidation of the aftermath of the Second World War and the recognition of the international personality of the German Democratic Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany have helped to add oxygen to the somewhat rarefied atmosphere of the old continent. The fruit of the  Security and Co operation in Europe are now starting to emerge. The agreements between the United States and the Soviet Union to prevent nuclear war and the negotiations by both countries on the limitation of strategic weapons and the mutual reduction of their armies stationed in Europe obviously tend to create conditions conducive to avoiding confrontation and replacing it by co-operation."
"1That process, tenaciously fostered by the Soviet Union as a complement of its policies of peaceful! coexistence among different systems, strengthens and encourages the age-old aspiration of peoples to security and peace and makes it possible to develop the struggle of the peoples of all the other continents to achieve political independence, economic emancipation and social progress. Detente is indivisible and therefore its benefits should be extended to the world at large."
"1It is equally clear that the promising reverberations felt all over the world are in dramatic contrast to the tensions and conflicts that still lie over the horizons outside the European continent itself. In Latin America the policy of cold war is still with us. Cuba is a nation under blockade. The Cuban delegation renews its strong condemnation of this aggressive measure and states once again that no official negotiation of the dispute between Cuba and the United States can begin until that criminal, arbitrary and anachronistic blockade is lifted for it is in clear contradiction with the detente applied elsewhere. There is no peace in the IndoChinese peninsula. The Agreement ending the war and restoring peace in Viet Nam, signed in Paris on 27 January 1973, has proved to be completely ineffective. United States imperialism has blocked every effort aimed at the peaceful reunification of Korea and foreign troops are still stationed in the south of the peninsula, sheltered under the flag of the United Nations. The agreements so arduously achieved in Laos are constantly jeopardized. With two thirds of its territory in the hands of the people's army of the Royal Government of National Union of Cambodia, the seat of that country at the United Nations is still occupied by"
"1Beyond the coast of Europe, in the Mediterranean area itself, the Middle East crisis, which is already threatening world peace and security, daily becomes worse. Today the Middle East subsoil is the potential epicenter of an explosion that will affect the whole world. The urgency of a definitive solution is obvious."
"1it would be helpful to realize that, whatever method or means may be used, there can be no just and lasting peace in the area until Israel returns the occupied Arab territories and recognizes the national rights of the Palestine Arab people. Cuba advocates the participation of the true representatives of that people in this session of the General Assembly when we discuss the question of Palestine and in any matters dealing with its existence as a nation. Without a solution to the problem of Palestine, any settlement of the crisis in the Middle East is illusory."
"1The bitter events in Cyprus, closely interlinked with the stormy situation in the Middle East, have thrown a dark shadow of concern over the fate of small nations. I shall not repeat here what is known to all. Suffice it to say that the people of Cyprus was the sacrificial victim of Yankee strategy in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization [NATO] and its allies in the disputed zone of the eastern Mediterranean."
"2The cunning overthrow of Archbishop Makarios, the constitutional President of Cyprus, was plotted by United States imperialism in connivance with the Greek Fascist junta, the reactionary forces of the region and the agents of the two communities in that country. The armed conflict that followed the coup d'etat led to foreign intervention which, despite the cease-fire agreement, is still causing severe losses, outrage and intolerable harassment to the inhabitants of the island. The people and the country of Cyprus have paid a very high price to remain independent and honor their adherence to the Movement of Non-aligned States."
"2Cyprus, the second non-aligned country to be attacked in less than a year by the concerted forces of reaction and imperialism, is at this moment at the mercy of NATO and of the invaders. The crude way it was contrived to impose this situation by force and foreign intervention is a challenge to the international community and to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. If an end is not put to it, it will throw wide open the gates for new aggressions by Israel against the Arab countries and endanger peace and security in Europe, the Mediterranean and the Middle East. The Movement of the Non-Aligned States has most severely condemned the international plot against the independence of Cyprus and actively supports the struggle of its people to reconquer its independence."
"2The Soviet Union has proposed the convening of a world conference within the context of the United Nations in order to resolve the dangerous situation which has been created and to safeguard the independence of Cyprus.' Cuba supports any other proposal tending towards the same end. Therefore, we feel that to that end any formula for solution should contain at least the following conditions: withdrawal of all foreign troops; absolute independence; territorial integrity; freedom to maintain the policy of non-alignment; and the solution of the problem of the national communities on the basis of the principle of territorial integrity and without foreign interference."
"2It is almost futile to specify that Chile was the other non-aligned country that in the past year has been the victim of a reactionary intern0' plot planned in collusion with imperialist intervention. The armed forces of Chile acted as the implacable weapon of those anti-national interests and they are directly responsible for the overthrow of the constitutional Government of Chile and the death of President Salvador Allende, who fell in combat clutching the flag of his .country and whose democratic and socialist convictions have lighted a torch that can never be extinguished."
"2An American hero, Salvador Allende is also a hero of the third world and of all peoples. As the Prime Minister of the Revolutionary Government of Cuba, Commander-in-Chief Fidel Castro, said in a iwcent address:"
"\"The great flame of solidarity now burning in all the nations of the world kindled in the heat of the Chilean tragedy has not died down with the passage of months. On the first anniversary of the death of President Allende his stature grows ever greater in the eyes of world public opinion, and the peoples redouble their condemnation of and contempt for the"
"Fascist junta. Nothing in the past few years has so deeply wounded moral sensitivities and produced such unanimous revulsion in all corners of the world. There is no government that stands in lower esteem or is more morally isolated than the Fascist Government of Chile.\""
"2From this very rostrum at the twenty-eighth session [2148th meeting], I denounced the participation of the Government of the United States in the overthrow and death of President Allende. That Pinocchio of a Pinochet tried futilely to prove sue wrong but today that participation is known to inter-national public opinion through the cynical confession of the Government of the United States itself, which at that time so obstinately denied its intervention."
"2I believe it most useful to mention those para-graphs of our Prime Minister's speech relating to these matters. He said:"
"\"The authorities of the United States at that time hastened to deny what all the world suspected, namely, the responsibility of the Government of the United States for the events in Chile. A year later we learned in minute detail that the CIA has intervened flagrantly in Chilean affairs on the direct order of the highest authorities of the United States throughout the last 10 years in order, first, to prevent the triumph of popular unity, then to hinder the transfer of power following its triumph, and finally to work actively for the overthrow of President Allende."
"\"We now know, from the publication of the report of the Director of the CIA, William Colby, to the Intelligence Sub-Committee of the Armed Services Committee of the House of Representatives on 22 April 1974 and from other evidence given by CIA agents and published in the United States press, that in the 1964 elections the CIA gave the Christian Democratic Party $3 million to support their candidate, Eduardo Frei, in his campaign against Salvador Allende; that in the 1970 elections the CIA invested considerable funds to prevent the triumph of the Popular candidate, and that same year when the victorious Popular forces had gained power, invested $350,000 to bribe the Congress of Chile so that Allende's election would not be ratified; that, immediately after the constitution of the Government of Popular Unity, the CIA spent $5 million between 1971 and 1973 to disrupt and sabotage that Government; that in the parliamentary elections of 1973 the CIA spent $1.5 million to support the opposition candidates and to influence the information mass media; and, finally, that in the summer of 1973 the CIA financed the counter-revolutionary riots, the truck drivers and trades-men's strikes in which tens of thousands of Fascists participate, and other acts which led to the criminal and"
"\"Without entering into consideration of the close relations that the Pentagon had with the Chilean armed forces, to which it was still supplying weapons at a time when all the credits \"of the Popular Government were cut off in the United States and in the international financial bodies controlled by it, it is clear that the CIA played a decisive role in creating suitable conditions and paving the way for the Fascist coup which has caused the Chilean people so much affliction, blood and tragedy. The CIA and the highest authorities of the United States who encouraged and supplied this policy bear direct responsibility for all the thousands of Chileans who have been tortured, murdered, imprisoned or exiled, and for the terrible conditions of oppression, unemployment and misery that millions of people are suffering in that fraternal country today. The pure, revolutionary and heroic blood of Salvador Allende that was shed on 11 September when he was murdered must leave an indelible stain on the history of those who govern the United States."
"\"Is it not in flagrant contradiction of all the rules of international law and the fundamental principles of the United Nations? Is it not against all the international conventions and treaties imposed by the United States on the peoples of this hemisphere?"
"\"It is not surprising, therefore, that\" -so Fidel Castro pointed out in his speech -\"with this basic lack of respect and consideration which the United States shows towards our peoples, it should have owned to and justified its intervention in Chile at the same time as it was threatening Venezuela and Ecuador, among other oil-producing countries, with reprisals in the form of starvation and even worse if they did not bow to its demands and reduce the price of petroleum.\""
"2Facts, like fists, repeatedly used, must inevitably lead us all to set up as soon as possible a genuine regional organization that will assure our position in the world and defend the peoples of Latin America, bring them together and unite them politically against the domination and over lordship of the United States. We are learning a worthy and useful lesson from the African nations. South Africa, Rhodesia and Europe are excluded from their regional organization."
"2In the statement to which I referred earlier, the Prime Minister of Cuba placed this question in the right context:"
"\"The United States, on the one side and the peoples of Latin America and the Caribbean on the other, form two worlds as different as are Europe and Africa; they do not fit within the same com-munity. There the separation is made by the very narrow straits of Gibraltar; here it is by the Rio Bravo and the Florida Straits. In both cases there is a technological gulf, and entirely different cultures."
"\"The United States is already a great community; the peoples of Latin America and the Caribbean have before them the historic task of forming their own, as the essential condition for freedom, development and survival. And that can never be achieved through unworthy and promiscuous contacts with the United States. United, our people will have sufficient strength to provide themselves with the security guarantees, in confronting the aggression, interference and domination of the United States, that can never be provided by the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance, or the OAS.\""
"2A few days ago the ex-Commander-in-Chief of the Chilean Army, Ex-Minister of Defense and ex-Vice President of the Republic in the Government of Popular Unity, Mr. Carlos Prats, was murdered by typical Fascist means in the City of Buenos Aires, where he had been living in exile since 15 September 1973. His wife died by his side, blown to pieces by the force of the explosion."
"3Prats was a military man of honor and an upright citizen who remained loyal to his constitutional obligations and to the sovereign will of the Chilean people. Living, he represented an accusing finger pointed at the great betrayal, and a ray of hope for the soldiers and officers who are still the hidd n reserves of the Chilean people. In a letter addressed to Mrs. Hortensia Busst, widow of the late Salvador Allende, he said:"
"\"With regard to the conduct of Pinochet, I can tell you that his treason is without parallel in the history of Chile.\""
"In another letter to one of Allende's daughters, Beatriz, he said:"
"\"I have suffered much for the it justices inflicted on me, but more for the sorrows that are now tormenting the Chilean people.\""
"He also let her know that he was writing his memoirs. And in his last letter to Allende's widow he said:"
"\"I have remained aloof from political and press contacts: but nevertheless my every act is closely watched by a strange and involved network of informers, and every effort is being made in Chile to find some evidence that could be used to besmirch my honor.\""
"3Prats assassination, by a strange coincidence, occurred at the same time as the CIA's secret admission in the House of Representatives, and the public admission by the Government of the United States, of the brazen interference in Chile's internal affairs. No great brilliance is needed to draw the logical conclusions: the alleged beneficiaries of this ghastly crime have betrayed themselves. But the noble blood of Carlos Prats will be fused with that of President Salvador Allende and the thousands of other murdered men and women to become the fount for the inexorable victory of the people of Chile. There can be no doubt that they will crush fascism. To that noble foundation has now been added the blood of Miguel Enriquez, Secretary-General of the Movement of the Revolutionary Left, who, when he was most needed, fell in a skirmish with the henchmen of the junta. The delegation of Cuba pays a revolutionary tribute to that valiant fighter."
"3A glance at the lengthy agenda of the current regular session of the General Assembly shows that there are not only many questions still awaiting solution, but also many problems that have emerged during the past year. It is obviously not possible for me to deal with so many questions. My delegation will consider them in detail in the appropriate Committees."
"3However, I consider it necessary to draw attention brief to the problem raised by the crisis of the old international economic order and some of its most important aspects. At the sixth special session Cuba made known its position on the matter [2227th meetingJ. We pointed out the imperative need to replace that unjust and obsolete structure by a new international economic order, to encourage and ensure the development and liberation of the under-developed nations, which are most ruthlessly discriminated against and exploited by the highly developed capitalist countries -the very countries which today threaten them with drastic reprisals, and even war- after having despoiled them for centuries. ''Truth will make the stones speak\", says the old proverb. And today the very stones must cry out at this clumsy effort to fob off on the under-developed, oil-producing countries the responsibility of the capitalist countries for the growing inflation, the international monetary crisis and the depression which is threatening us phenomena that have been created exclusively by the economic and financial machinery of their own obsolete system."
"3One of the main problems we face at the Assembly is, in fact, not the so-called crisis born of the increase in oil prices, but the real crisis that is undermining the very foundations of the capitalist system. No such situation has been seen since the end of the Second World War. But the characteristic signs of a new depression are clearly visible: cutbacks and unemployment. It is obvious that the boom in the market economies that began in 1971 has lost its momentum and that an alarming decline is now beginning. The financial upheavals of the international monetary crisis have been one of the propellent factors in this process. The foundations of the system established at Bretton Woods have been fatally eroded. The anti-cyclic maneuvers employed to halt the process have thus far failed entirely. The inflationary spiral is still soaring out of control."
"3The significant increase in the prices of raw materials has served as a pretext for some highly developed capitalist countries to organize a campaign to sow disagreement, confusion and disarray among the underdeveloped countries by laying the primary responsibility for what is happening to them on the shoulders of the oil-producers."
"3The underdeveloped countries are not responsible for this situation; they have been and continue to be its victims. The highly developed capitalist countries have for long imposed price increases on the world market, by exporting manufactured goods at prices that uncontrolled domestic inflation forced upwards at an outrageous pace. At the same time, the underdeveloped countries have been compelled to sell their raw materials at steadily falling prices, while purchasing equipment and manufactured goods at steadily rising prices: in brief, the familiar process of the constant deterioration in the terms of trade."
"3It is true that in recent years the prices of raw materials, and above all oil, also rose. But it is also true that that increase, except for oil, was due to purely episodic or temporary factors, ranging from climatic conditions in agricultural production to speculative movements, some linked to inflation and others to the international monetary crisis. It is also true that those who benefited most from the higher prices of raw materials, as the figures show, were some of the highly developed capitalist countries And it is equally true that the underdeveloped countries tried to organize themselves to take joint action for a legitimate improvement of their position vis-a-vis the colonialist system of unequal terms of trade."
"3The total values of the increase in exports of raw materials between 1972 and 1973 amounted to $40,000 million. Of that increase, the highly developed capitalist countries absorbed $29,000 million and the underdeveloped countries $11,000 million. It is demonstrably false that the third world derived any substantive benefits from the recent rise in commodity prices. But there is another point to be considered. The meager surplus obtained by the underdeveloped countries was in many cases wiped out by the deficit side of their foreign trade balances. They have had to face the devaluation of the dollar and the effects of inflation on their imports of manufactured goods and food."
"3In 1973 many Latin American countries had large deficits in their trade and service balances, as well as the outflow of funds represented by foreign private investments. In 1968-1972 almost $8,000 mil-lion was sent back to their main offices by United States firms that operate in Latin America. We would be justified in assuming that Yankee imperialism has assigned to our continent the function, among others, of helping it to solve its international balance of payments deficit."
"4The raising of oil prices by the underdeveloped producer countries has provoked a storm of lies, calumny and threats. There have even been veiled accusations against those countries responsible for inciting a possible world conflict. Cuba's position on this burning question was stated very clearly by our Prime Minister in his aforementioned speech; it is the position of an underdeveloped, socialist but non- aligned Latin American nation; and I shall, if you will allow me, read out a few paragraphs from that speech relative to this problem and the political strategy called for in these critical times:"
"\"As raised, in unusually harsh terms by the President of the United States and other leaders of that country, both at the United Nations and at the nineteenth World Energy Conference being held in Detroit -where, obviously, the Yankee authorities, by denying Cuba's representative a visa, prevented our participation -the oil question assumes dramatic proportions."
"\"Through a concerted and perfectly prepared action, the leaders of that country demanded that the oil-producing nations reduce their prices, holding them responsible for any imminent world economic crisis that might arise and threatening them with possible and varied kinds of reprisals. Indeed, the American news agencies undertook to stress the dramatic nature of those pronouncements, and they were justified in so doing."
"\"The statements of the President of the United States were added to by similar declarations by the United States Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury."
"\"The United States strategy is very clear: to group under its aegis the developed capitalist nations, to divide the nations of the third world and isolate the oil-producing nations in order to impose its conditions upon them. In so doing, it threatens them, in reprisal, with putting a stop to the export of food, and even with war."
"\"It is unjust, first of all, to blame the oil-producing countries for world-wide inflation and the inter-national monetary crisis. Responsibility for those problems falls on the United States itself. It is the United States which imposed on the community of nations the monetary system that gave the dollar a privileged position over all other currencies; it was the United States which flooded the world and the reserve banks of nearly all countries with American banknotes, that by far exceeded their gold backing; it was the United States which blockaded and isolated the socialist community from international trade; it was the United States which started the cold war and unleashed the arms race; it was the United States and its allies which, through their military pacts for a quarter of a century, invested thousands of millions of dollars yearly in armaments; it was the United States which launched the war in Viet Nam, which cost more than $150,000 million. The United States war budget exceeds $80,000 million a year, and the CIA alone spends thousands of millions yearly. In this scandalous imperialist policy lie the roots of inflation and of the monetary crisis that emerged long before the oil price rises. It was the United States which established the consumer society and"
"\"Secondly, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) emerges as a just reaction on the part of the producer countries of the underdeveloped world to defend themselves against unjust prices, unfair terms of trade and the exorbitant earnings of the great multinational companies, which, for the most part, are United States-owned. Those who invented monopolistic oil prices way above production costs were not the producer countries, but rather the large oil companies, which thus obtained fabulous earnings for imperialism."
"\"For many years oil suffered the same fate as that of other raw materials produced by the under-developed world. But oil is a very special raw material, because iron, aluminum, tin, copper, nickel, uranium, chrome, manganese and many other products are consumed almost entirely by the developed nations; oil, on the other hand, is a product that, to a greater or lesser extent, must be consumed by all countries of the world. Of all raw materials, it is the most essential and most irreplaceable. Therein lies the strength, but also the weakness, of the countries that produce it, in this confrontation with imperialism."
"\"No sooner had oil prices risen after the last crisis in the Middle East than the developed capitalist countries forced a break-neck rise in the costs of equipment, technology and industrial products, far exceeding what the energy costs may have added to production costs. The United States responded immediately to the oil price rises by increasing the prices of its own exports. But while it has that resource with which to face its difficulties, there are many countries in the world that neither are industrialized nor possess oil, and whose agricultural products or raw materials do not fetch adequate prices to compensate for the tremendous increase in the costs of industrial products and energy."
"\"Imperialist strategy is therefore aware that in many poor countries a call for reduced oil prices must fall on receptive ears. Such a reduction could lead to a serious split between the countries of the the third world and, with it, to the ruin of the oil- exporting countries a ruin which, in the long run, would also befall all other producers of raw materials and would spell an aggravation of the already unequal terms of trade imposed on our peoples by imperialism."
"\"Oil enjoys a privileged position among the various raw materials and hence stands in the van-guard of this struggle. But this places an enormous responsibility on the oil-exporting countries. If we want all underdeveloped countries to take part in the oil battle, the oil-producing countries must shoulder their responsibilities in the struggle of the underdeveloped world. It is not by investing oil income in the industrialized countries or in inter-national financial bodies controlled by imperialism that the support of the underdeveloped world will be obtained. Those resources must be invested in the third world itself, in the struggle against under-development, so that the oil battle can be a true banner and a hope for all the needy peoples of the world. Otherwise, much of the underdeveloped world will have nothing to gain from that struggle, and will only have to pay more for energy and manufactured goods and resign itself to further impoverishment in an already critical situation."
"\"Neither the oil producers nor the underdeveloped nations can allow themselves the luxury of missing this historic opportunity. This is the moment when all countries of the third world must unite their efforts and face the imperialist challenge. If the oil producers remain united and firm, if they do not allow themselves to be intimidated by the threats of the United States, if they seek to ally themselves with the rest of the underdeveloped world, the industrialized capitalist countries will have to accept as inevitable the disappearance of the shameful, unjust terms of trade that they have imposed on our peoples."
"\"The non-aligned countries could meet and give a firm, united and categorical reply to the threats and pressures of the United States. Faced with the imperialist strategy of divide and conquer, what is required is even more resolute solidarity; and thus international co-operation, which is so indispensable, would be based not on terms dictated by the imperialists, but on the aspirations and legitimate interests of all peoples of the world."
"\"The Government of Venezuela has replied with determination and dignity to the speech of the President of the United States. Yet only a very few Latin American countries, some of them oil producers or potential exporters, have given Venezuela their support; many Governments have remained silent. When Venezuela nationalizes iron and oil, as its Government has proclaimed it will do soon, the imperialist policy towards Venezuela can be expected to harden."
"\"This is an historic hour in which Venezuela needs the support of all peoples of Latin America, and Latin America needs Venezuela. We must recognize its battle as the battle of all our peoples."
"\"At the same time, Venezuela, with the extra-ordinary financial resources that it can mobilize as the fruits of a firm and victorious oil policy, could do much for the solidarity, integration, development and independence of the peoples of Latin America, as did the soldiers of Simon Bolivar a century ago."
"\"Cuba, which, thanks to the generous assistance of the Soviet Union, has not suffered an energy crisis, and whose development is progressing despite the imperialist blockade and the cowardly behavior of many Governments of this continent, has no hesitation in proclaiming its support for the sister Government and people of Venezuela in their just position vis-a-vis the claims and contentions of the United States."
"\"Let the Venezuelans learn from the example of the Cuban revolution, which under the most unbelievable conditions of blockade, hemispheric solitude and isolation, firmly and unhesitatingly resisted the assaults of imperialism, and which, today, 15 years later, emerges victorious and unscathed -an irreversible fact in this continent."
"''Venezuela will not, however, stand alone in this hemisphere as did Cuba. Perhaps destiny holds anew for the people of the illustrious Liberator an outstanding and decisive role in the final attainment of independence by the nations of Latin America.\""
"41. In his message to the Secretary-General, President Houari Boumediene of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria very cogently refers to the grave responsibilities that fall on the developed industrialized countries."
"\"Feeling, no doubt, that they were unable by their own means and with their own resources to curb the inflationary process, some industrialized countries are trying to attribute the problems which they are experiencing and which they have managed to extend to the rest of the world, exclusively to the price of oil sold by a group of developing countries. In actual fact, far from bringing about inflation, the oil-producing countries, like all countries producing raw materials, have been the first victims of inflation. The true cause of inflation must be sought in the very foundations of the economic system of the developed countries."
"\"This system, which for centuries enabled the Western countries to build up and expand their economies, has its real roots in the permanent exploitation of the poorest by the richest and of the weakest by the strongest. Some developed countries have gone so far as to refuse humanitarian assistance to the most impoverished of the third world countries, while others have made their assistance contribution contingent on the assistance provided by other countries, and particularly the oil-producing countries.... such conduct... is intended to exert pressure on the member countries of OPEC, threatening to exacerbate the plight of the disadvantaged to the point of despair. Most developed countries have failed to learn any lessons from the discussions which took place at the recent special session of the General Assembly and they persist in believing that they can settle the problems now confronting mankind outside the framework of the United Nations.\" [AI97S7, annex, pp. 2 and 3.]"
"4President Boumediene stresses in his message that \"questions of energy, raw materials or of inflation can be settled only by the establishment of genuine international co-operation\". But he warns that that co-operation can only occur on the day \"when the international economic order ceases to be dominated by the developed countries\"."
"4Once again Cuba reaffirms its profound con-viction that the basic problem confronting the third world today is that of its liberation and development. The foundation of its relations with the developed capitalist countries rests on the privileges, strictures and subterfuges of imperialism and neo-colonialism - the machinery that props up and promotes perpetuation of the system was set up during the era of colonial expansion. Their hegemony over the raw materials market, their virtual monopoly of the manufacture of goods, capital assets and the control of the international financial institutions have allowed them at will to impose their unfair terms of trade and to subjugate the evolution and the trends of international trade, which have been characterized by a discriminatory and obstructionist policy to the benefit of the great consortia and transnational corporations and to the grave detriment of the developing countries. Expansion of world trade in these conditions has therefore served primarily to lead to the undue enrichment of the highly developed capitalist countries at the expense, proportionally, of the impoverishment of the underdeveloped countries."
"4The time has come to unite our efforts until we enforce the sovereign right that we possess over our natural resources and thus replace the unjust and anachronistic international order in economic relations by the new international economic order which will encourage and strengthen the development and liberation of the third world. The maturity of our conscience now cries out for coherent action in the effort to reclaim what was ours, which we have determined to carry out without respite and without hesitation, in alliance with the democratic, progressive and socialist countries which share in the same battle. Fatherland or death! We shall prevail!"
"9  First of all, I wish to express the satisfaction of the Cuban delegation at the election of Mr. Gaston Thorn to preside over the thirtieth session of the General Assembly. The decision of the General Assembly is an expression of respect for the peaceful conduct of Luxembourg and for his qualities as an experienced statesman. My delegation reiterates its readiness to co-operate with the President in the discharge of his lofty responsibilities."
"9May I also extend a greeting to Mr. Abdelaziz Bouteflika, Foreign Minister of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria and President of the twenty-ninth session of the General Assembly. His able and laudable action was a decisive factor in inscribing the last session in the annals of the Organization as one of the high moments in its necessary evolution in harmony with the positive changes that are taking place in international life."
"9Cuba enthusiastically welcomes the new States Members of the United Nations. The Republic of Cape Verde, the People's Republic of Mozambique and the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe have joined our Organization after successfully completing their secular struggle against colonialism and have entered the stream of non-aligned revolutionary States. Their admission to the United Nations is a reminder to us all of the duty devolving on the international community to co-operate actively with the peoples of the former Portuguese colonies, thus helping them along the road to development. We await the speedy entry of an independent Angola, victorious over the intrigues of imperialism."
"9In welcoming the new Member States, we condemn the unjust exclusion of the Democratic Republic of Viet Nam and the Republic of South Viet Nam. The attitude of the Government of the United States in this connexion shows the stubbornness of imperialism and the total isolation to which it condemns the North American authorities. Only the veto repeatedly used by Washington has prevented Vietnamese representatives from taking their rightful place in our midst."
"The General Assembly spoke out unanimously in favor of their admission. World public opinion, including that of the people of the United States demands that they be allowed to occupy their rightful places."
"10The North American veto on the diplomatic plane is the expression of their continued hostility to the people of the Viet Nam. The same warlike attitude which unleashed over Indo-China the cruelest of wars prompts the behavior of those who today decree the economic, political and diplomatic blockade against Viet Nam and deny their right of admission to the United Nations. It is the obligation of all to oppose this warmongering attitude and demand of the United States that it put an end to it once and for all."
"10The General Assembly should consider the steps that it might take to counteract the obstructionist action of the United States. If Washington persists in its veto against Viet Nam it will be necessary to mobilize all the peace-loving States and forces of the world until Washington is made to feel the effects of the universal censure of its aggressive conduct, which is contrary to the course of history."
"10The people of Viet Nam has made an invaluable contribution to the cause of those who struggle for freedom and independence. Its tenacious resistance to aggression, its indomitable fighting spirit and its glorious and complete victory have shown that today there is neither a weak or small people nor any imperialist might capable of deterring or containing the will for freedom of subjugated masses. Its example will always take pride of place in the struggle of the peoples of Africa, Asia, and Latin America, and will be a living lesson and a permanent encouragement to them all. The historic magnitude of its struggle and triumph make it all the more necessary to assist, impelled by generosity, in the reconstruction of Viet Nam, laid waste by a war that was sustained for the sake of the salvation of all nations on the three continents."
"10The decision taken at the Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Non-Aligned Countries, held recently at Lima, to create a Solidarity Fund for the reconstruction of Viet Nam [see A/10217 and Corr.l, annex I, resolution XIII], which Cuba applauds and supports and which was in fact originally an initiative of Prime Minister Fidel Castro, must be accompanied by concerted action until such time as the international community as a whole and the United Nations in particular offer Viet Nam all the co-operation necessary to speed up the country's rehabilitation, and to demand of the Government of the United States that it fulfil the commitment under article 21 of the Paris Agreement to assist in healing the wounds of war in Viet Nam and Indo-China."
"10The peoples of Kampuchea and Laos were protagonists in a heroic struggle waged parallel with that of Viet Nam. With admirable courage, they confronted the aggression of imperialism and its agents. Their triumph represents a significant contribution to the cause of emancipation of the third world. To achieve it the peoples of Kampuchea and Laos accepted sacrifices and bore chastisement that make them worthy of the broadest and staunchest solidarity. The international community is duty-bound to contribute to the reconstruction of Laos and Cambodia with all the necessary resources."
"10The Assembly is meeting at an especially propitious time for peoples intent on their emancipation and on building a peaceful and prosperous future. The victories of the peoples of Viet Nam, Cambodia and Laos open a new phase in which it is possible to stay the hand of the aggressor. The collapse of fascism in Portugal and the liquidation of its former colonial empire point to the advent of a time in which there will be no nation groaning under a foreign yoke."
"10The results of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe show that it is possible to strengthen the process of detente. We live in an era in which the positions of socialism and being consolidated; in which the emancipation movements of the peoples of Africa, Asia and Latin America are growing, while the forces of reaction, imperialism and colonialism are forced to beat a retreat. And yet, despite the unquestionable achievements of recent times, the peoples of Africa, Asia and America are still confronted by many obstacles in their uphill march towards full freedom and development."
"10It is quite obvious that the main centers of imperialism do not resign themselves to their fate and endeavor everywhere to return to their positions of domination and exploitation. That is clearly illustrated by the conspiracies against States exercising their sovereign rights, by the attempts to halt the decolonization process, by encouragement of racist and Fascist movements and the refusal to introduce indispensable changes in the old and unjust structure of international economy as well as the maintenance of hotbeds of tension and constant threats against the process of affirmation of peaceful coexistence,"
"10In Angola the conspiracy of imperialism, its allies and lackeys, has found concrete expression in the brazen interference designed to frustrate true decolonization while threatening its territorial integrity; snatching away from the Movimento Popular de Libertagao de Angola [MPLA1 the fruits of its dauntless struggle against colonialism, while condemning the future State to control by transnational corporations. Cuba renews the expression c>r its full solidarity with the MPLA yesterday heroic in its struggle against the European colonizer, today firm in its defense of true independence."
"10In the face of the scandalous interference of imperialists, colonialists and racists, it is an elementary duty to offer its people the cETective assistance that may be required for that country to ensure its true independence and full sovereignty. In order to spur the decolonization process, a coherent strategy must be implemented with the participation of all progressive forces, This strategy is essential in order to face up to colonialist and racist machinations against the peoples of Namibia and Zimbabwe and must oppose colonialism in all its forms and manifestations in every corner of the earth,"
"11In this connexion we reiterate our support for the independence of Puerto Rico, Belize and other colonial Territories in the Caribbean, and once again support the right of Argentina to recover the Malvinas Islands."
"11In the Middle East imperialism is maneuvering to restore its influence and exercise control over its oil resources through the so-tailed policy of partial solutions. That policy is designed, moreover, to isolate Syria, to perpetuate the occupation by Israel of the greater part of the Arab territories and to deny the rights of the Arab people of Palestine. We wish to state once again that there will be no lasting solution in the region unless it is on the basis of the complete withdrawal of Israeli troops from all the territories occupied in 1967 and of the full exercise by the people of Palestine of its inalienable right to self-determination, independence and sovereignly in its usurped homeland."
"11The Korean peninsula, yesterday the stage for a cruel bloody war, is still a source of threat to peace as a result of the interfering policy of United States imperialism. If a just solution is to be found the General Assembly must pronounce unequivocally in favor of the immediate withdrawal of all foreign troops garrisoned in the southern part of the country, and in favor of the peaceful and independent reunification of that territory without foreign interference."
"11United States designs of perpetuating their domination in Micronesia represent a challenge to the decolonization objectives of the United Nations and a threat to peace and security in the Pacific. Our Organization cannot disregard this fact and should adopt effective measures enabling the peoples of Micronesia freely to exercise their right to self-determination and independence."
"11In the field of international economic relations, my country, as a member of the Group of 77. shares its just demands as put forward in countless forums and which were concreted essentially in the Declaration and the program of Action on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order [resolutions 3201 iS-Vt} and 3202 i.T-T/,] and in the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States (resolution 3281 (XXfX)], both documents having been approved despite the tenacious opposition of the United States delegation."
"11At a lime when the capitalist economy is suffering the consequences of the acute recession it engendered, and when it seeks to unload its negative effects on the economies of the developing countries, it is of particular importance for the latter to change their traditionally unfavorable terms of trade and to obtain remunerative prices for their exports in the international capitalist market, to secure access to the necessary financing for their development on favorable terms, and to conduct their economic policies in the full exercise of permanent sovereignty over their natural resources, in particular, vis-a-vis the vast imperialist transnational corporations."
"11In this context, requests such as those included in the integrated program of primary commodities  price indexation to protect the developing countries in the face of the sustained increase in the price of imports from the developed capitalist countries which generated the inflation, and the set of proposals relating to development aid represent, inter alia. some of the measures which, in spite of the obdurate resistance of the United States and a number of other countries, none the less represent rungs to be climbed on the ladder of the inevitable establishment of a new inter-national economic order."
"11Despite the over-all improvement in the European situation, there still subsist in that continent conflicts and tensions which may well lead to the disruption of peace. Cyprus is still the victim of armed attacks which have amputated part of the national territory, although so far the United Nations has not been able to confront it in the only manner compatible with the obligations enshrined in the Charter. It is high time for us to adopt strong measures in solidarity with Cyprus, a loyal, faithful State Member of this Organization and a founding member of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries. Our support goes unhesitatingly to the legal Government of that country, the only legitimate Government of Cyprus, presided over by Archbishop Makarios. The immediate and unconditional withdrawal of foreign troops, full respect for the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and non-alignment of Cyprus all are prerequisites for the Cypriot people to solve by itself, without foreign interference, its domestic problems while finding a harmonious and just solution to the question of relations between the two Cypriot communities."
"11The Portuguese revolution, beset domestically and from outside by a whole set of hostile forces ranging from Fascists to pseudo-revolutionaries of every ilk, is still arousing concern and interest among all the workers of the world. Insistently they demand an end to imperialist interference in the affairs of Portugal and unrestricted respect for the right of its people to go ahead with the revolutionary changes it has begun."
"11The consistent policy of the Soviet Union and other socialist countries in favor of peace and the elimination of international tension have resulted in important achievements that are above all reflected in the successful conclusion of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe. Its persistence in such endeavors and the sustained struggle of the peoples of the world to tie the hands of the imperialist aggressors may well lead to a situation in which peace and detente acquire a universal and lasting character. The proposal for the conclusion of a treaty on the complete and general prohibition of nuclear weapon tests [A! 10241, annex] as well as the proposal for the prohibition of the development and manufacture of new types of weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons [A/10243, annex], submitted to this Assembly by Comrade Andrei Gromyko, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Soviet Union, confirm yet again the peaceful will of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and its sincere and effective contribution to positive action by the United Nations. These proposals must be given due attention by the Assembly."
"12The peoples of Latin America and the Caribbean are increasing their action designed to consolidate their national independence, to lead to the recovery of their natural resources and to help them play their rightful part in international life. The efforts of Peru, Mexico, Venezuela, Panama, Jamaica, Guyana, Trinidad and Tobago and other countries in this respect are well known. The Revolutionary Government of Cuba again expresses its support for such actions."
"12The constitution of the Latin American economic system, the Multinational Caribbean Shipping Company and the joint protection of the price of coffee, sugar and bananas are expressions of a new regional awareness foretelling the advent of a not-too- distant era in which Latin America will unite to form the community conceived by Simon Bolivar and Jose Marti which the realities of the present-day world are turning into a necessary goal. The historic task of Latin America will not be easy. It boils down to conquering its second independence. Its attainment, as far as the immediate future is concerned, calls for the total liquidation of colonialism in all its forms and manifestations and the defeat of the aggressive purposes of reaction and fascism. That is why the nationalist action of Latin America and the Caribbean must place in the forefront solidarity with Panama in its struggle for full exercise of its sovereignty over the Canal and the Canal Zone, firm support for the independence of Puerto Rico and support for the antiFascist resistance of the Chilean people. Panama, Puerto Rico and Chile will serve as a measure of the degree of true solidarity"
"12Panama's entry into the non-aligned Movement and the support of the Latin American group for its aspiration to become a member of the Security Council are signs of growing international support for the just demands of its people and Government."
"12The General Assembly must give highest priority to consideration of the situation in Chile. It is no longer merely a question of claiming human rights and alleviating the drama that torments the people of Chile. The institution of fascism in Chile, as we have said from the very beginning and as events bear out today, is part of an offensive by the most retrograde forces directed not only, against the peoples of Latin America but also against their brothers in Africa and Asia who are fighting against imperialism, colonialism and racism."
"12Latin American fascism is the natural ally of racism and colonialism. It is in fact at their service. It seeks to act as a wedge that will break the necessary solidarity between the peoples of the three continents. The struggle against it, therefore, becomes of primary importance for all the peoples of Africa, Asia and Latin America. Were there no such colonial fascism, Mr. Vorster could not travel around South America; the South African Davis Cup team could not compete unconcernedly in Santiago, nor could the partisans and supporters of apartheid indulge in wild propaganda in favor of their hateful policy from a number of capitals in the southern tip of South America. Therefore the Foreign Ministers of the non- aligned countries, meeting at Lima last August, rightly declared:"
"\"The Conference took note with concern of the recent visit of the head of the racist regime of South Africa to Uruguay and Paraguay, as well as of the increasing relations of other Governments of Latin America, particularly the Chilean Government, with the South African regime.\" [AI10217 and Corr.l, annex, para. 37.]"
"12The case of Chile is still the subject of unanimous concern. Engendered by the most repugnant treason and violence and conceived as a means of reversing the democratic and liberating process undertaken by the Government of President Allende, the Fascist regime makes a mockery of all humanitarian principles, continues its crimes and outrages against the Chilean people and challenges the voices of, protest that are raised in all sectors of democratic world opinion. Not a single international conference of note has been held in the past year that has failed to express its most categorical repudiation of the atrocities committed by the Pinochet junta or that has not called for the termination of his hateful policy of repression and the betrayal of national interests. To bear this out, we have the agreements of the International Labour Conference, the Dakar Conference of the developing countries, the World Conference of the International Women's Year, the Fifth Ministerial Conference of the Non-Aligned Countries, the recent meeting of the Governing Board of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and many other gatherings of"
"12Last year the General Assembly gave its President and the Secretary-General a mandate in connexion with the protection of human rights in Chile [resolution 3219 (XXIX)). The efforts deployed by both which we appreciate have proved fruitless. The Commission on Human Rights set up an ad hoc working group to submit a report and visit Chile. Initially, the Fascist authorities supported the decision of the Commission and declared, like demagogues, that they would welcome the members of the Working Group. At the eleventh hour, when its members were about to board a plane for Santiago, they cancelled the authorization for the journey. By refusing the visit of the Working Group, the Fascist junta gave proof of what is was uselessly attempting to deny and it did so, moreover, with the shamefacedness and contempt for the international community which have become a rule of conduct of a regime which today represents, to a degree only matched by its South African allies and mentors, a stigma of our times."
"12It is up to the General Assembly at its current session to give the insolence of the Pinochet regime the response it deserves. Solidarity with the antiFascist resistance of the Chilean people must be expanded and strengthened until we can put a stop to the activities of the clique which now oppresses them. We are convinced that the General Assembly will know how to do its duty."
"12It is increasingly clear that the case of Puerto Rico is evidence of the attitude that is today being maintained with regard to colonialism. In spite of the great obstacles it has had to confront, despite imperialist plans to absorb it and annihilate it as a nation, Puerto Rico is an admirable example of national resistance. Its people, which for over three quarters of a century has resisted foreign occupation, is deserving of the firmest and clearest international solidarity. Such solidarity was given unequivocable expression at the recent international Conference of Solidarity with the Independence of Puerto Rico held at Havana barely a month ago,"
"129. By resorting to incorrect procedure the Government of the United States was able this year to postpone the debate on the question of Puerto Rico in the"
"Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. Those who are opposed to colonialism must considerably increase their solidarity with the independence of Puerto Rico. Cuba will continue to do so unrelentingly, in support of the revolutionary principles governing its international policy and because of its affectionate friendship with the people of Puerto Rico, which has been united with the people of Cuba by over a century of common struggle against the same enemies and under twin flags."
"13Our solidarity with Puerto Rico is not a question of tactical expediency or a negotiable article. It is an unalterable expression of our policy of principle and is prompted by the same spirit instilled in our people by the farsightedness and generosity of Jose Marti. It is sustained by the blood shed by hundreds of Puerto Rican patriots who fought and died on Cuban soil for ou r common freedom. Some official spokesmen of the Government of the United States have declared that the North American authorities would make the raising of the illegal economic and trade blockade against Cuba conditional upon the attitude of Cuba towards the independence of Puerto Rico. The Prime Minister of the Revolutionary Government of Cuba, Commander Fidel Castro, in a speech on 28 September last, gave to such statements the response they deserved. With the unanimous support of our people, Comrade Fidel Castro affirmed the following:"
"\"We must all know first, we ourselves and secondly, our adversaries that independently of Cuba's economic interests, independently of our foreign policy based on the principles of Marxism and Leninism and on the principles of peaceful co-existence with other States and on mutually beneficial relations with other States a policy which serves the interests of our State and our people- there can never be any improvement in relations with Cuba that is based on the renunciation of a single one of our fundamental principles."
"\"Our people, from the point of view of its economic development, needs the broadest trade and technological relations with all countries, without exception; but our country is even more interested in the purity of its principles and its international conduct. If this is not understood or accepted, we shall have all the patience needed. We shall wait and be blockaded with dignity as long as it is necessary to be blockaded. We shall move forward at a faster or slower pace and we shall make more or fewer sacrifices. But our clean banners, the dignity and principles of this country, can never be negotiated.\""
"13The past year has been for the Cuban people a year of great and continued victories, in spite of the persistent imperialist blockade, and we have continued to build socialism. In the field of agriculture, education, construction and public health Cuba's successes are still an example to other countries of Latin America."
"13Next year the Cuban people will put into effect the socialist constitution, which has been discussed broadly and in depth in thousands of assemblies throughout the country, and will establish the organs of people's power. The Cuban revolution will thus be entering a new stage resulting from its definitive consolidation and the guarantee of its irreversible historic continuity."
"13Cuba's international position becomes stronger with each passing day; its ties of friendship and cooperation with the Soviet Union and other socialist countries are being strengthened. Its participation in the non-aligned movement is growing, as shown by the recent decision of the ministerial Conference held at Lima to recommend that the sixth Conference of Heads of State or Government of those countries be held in Havana. Its solid links with the peoples of Latin America, which the imperialist blockade has never destroyed, are being renewed and strengthened."
"13At the end of this year our people will hold the most decisive and important meeting of this period  the first congress of the Cuban Communist Party. Our people are preparing for it enthusiastically and in all confidence. The Cuban Communist Party is the heir to and continues the age-old struggle of our people, the organized vanguard of our revolution. Born of the combative union of all Cuban revolutionaries under the supreme direction of comrade Fidel Castro, the Cuban Communist Party represents today the profound aspirations of our people to peace, independence and justice, which in the past century were grouped around the Cuban Revolutionary Party of Jose Marti."
"13When they meet next December to assess the progress achieved and make plans for new tasks, Cuban communists will be able to do so with profound revolutionary satisfaction. The road they have traveled has been long and arduous. Victories and defeats were met along the way, which led to bloodshed and pain, but also hope for the uninterrupted march of our people towards its liberation. Many freedom fighters died before they could get a glimpse of the shining future for which they gave their lives. There were countless sacrifices, and exploits and daily anonymous agony, which ended in victory in January 1959 and led to the conquest of independence and the possibility of establishing socialism."
"13The future, like the present, is not exempt from difficulties which will lead to new action by the Cuban people. To raise the socialist society at the entrance to the Caribbean Sea, under the conditions imposed by the blockade and imperialist hostility, in a developing country poor in natural resources and with an economy almost entirely dependent on agriculture, while firmly maintaining and upholding the high principles of internationalism and revolutionary solidarity, will always be the heroic goal of our historic dimension."
"13Our people will do this. Its unalterable revolutionary will is entrenched in such deeds and sacrifices of several generations of Cubans who for more than a century suffered death with dignity rather than lower their glorious flag. It is inspired by the supreme ideal of creating a new society, for ever free from all forms of exploitation by human beings. It is inspired by the immortal example of Ernesto Guevara, who, on a day such as this, left in the heartland of America his unforgettable message, which calls on the peoples of the continent to resist and fight."
"13Onward to victory!"
NA
NA
NA
NA
"): It is gratifying for us all to be able to applaud the unanimous election of Mr. Amerasinghe as President of the General Assembly. His wide experience, his well-known qualities as a diplomat and his dedication to the ideals of the United Nations make his election an act of justice. It is, moreover, an expression of gratitude to the Government and people of Sri Lanka, which, under the guidance of Mrs. Sirimavo Bandaranaike, play an active role in the forefront of the struggle of the non-aligned countries to build a new order in international relations based on independence and equality. It is especially gratifying to my delegation to congratulate him by virtue of the brotherly relations that exist between Cuba and Sri Lanka and the friendship that has characterized our relations with Mr. Amerasinghe in the course of a number of years' work in the United Nations."
"May we extend our congratulations to the Government of the Republic of Seychelles, which has recently obtained independence and has become a new Member of the United Nations. Those two events represent a tribute to the world struggle against colonialism and demonstrate once again the inevitable nature of the process of decolonization at the world level."
"In welcoming the admission of Seychelles we must voice our protest against the exclusion of the People's Republic of Angola and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. Those two States, which are members of the non-aligned movement and of its Co-ordinating Bureau, have become members of a number of international bodies and maintain normal relations with almost all the members of the international community. Their admission to the United Nations has the virtually unanimous support of countries of all regions and political and social systems. If Angola and Viet Nam are not among us today, this is due exclusively to the disgraceful, irresponsible and obstinate opposition of the Government of the United States of America, which appears to base its foreign policy on whim and arbitrariness."
"The year that has elapsed since the last session of the General Assembly has been characterized by advances and victories in.the struggles of peoples-against imperialism, colonialism and racism."
"During that stage, together with the achievements of the socialist countries and of the forces struggling for peace, we must note the historical victories of the people in Viet Nam, which was reunified under the banner of socialism; in Laos, where the Democratic People's Republic was established; and in Kampuchea. We also witnessed the success of the liberation movement in the former Portuguese colonies, especially the defeat of the South African racists in Angola, the positive consequences of which have given a decisive impetus to the struggle for liberation in southern Africa and the continuation of the process of detente in Europe."
"All those achievements show a predominant trend in international relations in favor of the cause of peace, independence and progress. However, together with those encouraging factors, we continue to witness trends that could lead to war and aggression and the activities of those favoring the use of force in international relations continue to threaten the process of detente, which has not yet become irreversible and universal. It is not difficult to see that the forces of imperialism and reaction are still stubbornly intent on changing the course of events and repressing peoples in order to halt or deflect the processes of liberation, while attacking progressive Governments. We are living in a situation in which the progressive forces and those which seek to hold back the march of history are engaged in a decisive struggle and bloody confrontation. That antagonism is the characteristic feature of the present international situation. In order to consolidate peace and to obtain an order of relations in keeping with the principles and purposes of the Charter it is essential to maintain the united efforts of the socialists, the non-aligned and all other countries interested in the promotion of true international co-operation. That effort must be channeled along three levels at the same time: we must consolidate, extend and make irreversible international detente; we must achieve effective agreements on the"
"The African scene, at the time of the opening of the current session of the General Assembly, has undergone radical changes. The heroic and consistent struggle of the liberation movements culminated in the downfall of Portuguese colonialism and the accession to independence of Guinea-Bissau, Cape Verde, Mozambique, Sao Tome and Principe and Angola. The racist regimes in the southern part of Africa were cornered by the impetuous advance of the liberating process. Faced with that different situation, the imperialists, colonialists and racists conceived a new strategy which was more brutal, more aggressive, more subtle and insidious. On the one hand, they organized the most shameless military aggression against independent Angola, invaded its territory and committed every kind of crime, misdeed and outrage against its noble people. On the other hand, the diplomats and theoreticians of imperialism, disconcerted by the image of an Africa that was standing on its feet and firmly repulsing its oppressors, showed an unaccustomed interest in that continent and attempted, through demagogy, deceit and the manipulation of docile collaborators, to confuse their peoples and disseminate deceitful formulas for the \"solution\" of their serious problems, the object of which was to sow division among the anti-colonialist forces and to perpetuate the supremacy of racism in that continent."
"They are still today continuing this two-faced game which combines flattery with the stick, the cleverness of their professors with the bayonets of their mercenaries. While Mr. Kissinger hurries off to a region of the world which he has only lately discovered, his colleagues in the Central Intelligence Agency and in the Pentagon continue to forge aggressive plans against the People's Republic of .Angola and are unflagging in their promotion of con-spiracies against the progressive States of Africa. While the United States Secretary of State talks with Mr. Vorster and Mr. Smith of magic formulas to perpetuate apartheid and white oppression under the guise of new clothes designed at the eleventh hour, the racists in Pretroia are massacring children in Soweto and the Salisbury troops are bombing the territory of Mozambique and destroying refugee camps."
"Those who believe that they can deceive those who have been subjugated and impoverished for centuries are mistaken. They will be even more mistaken if, dominated by an arrogance that makes them believe in their capacity to repeat successfully the deceitful practices of the first European sailors and discoverers, they attempt to pass themselves off as liberators of those whom they are oppressing and as friends of their victims."
"1There is no possibility, nor has there ever been or will be one, of reconciliation between the oppressor and the oppressed and between the victims and those who victimize them. We must not forget that, if today the former colonialists and racists are attempting maneuvers to enable them to negotiate with those against whom they fought for so many years in the most difficult circumstances, this is precisely due to the effectiveness of the struggle, to the successes achieved by the liberation movements in their difficult and selfless struggle. The international community must not condone any action which might affect the liberation movements or weaken them in their efforts. The correct and consistent thing to do in this decisive hour is to redouble the most resolute political, moral and material support to the African liberation movements in order to speed up the downfall of the colonialist and racist regimes, with which we cannot legitimately compromise until such time as the cause of freedom and independence has triumphed throughout the continent."
"1Hie General Assembly must renew its commitment of solidarity with the struggle of the African peoples for independence, freedom and racial equality. In this connexion the Assembly should energetically condemn the maneuvers of the Pretoria regime designed to perpetuate its oppression over Namibia. The deceitful racist words spoken in the fraudulent \"constitutional talks\" in Windhoek must be categorically rejected. The only peaceful solution of this question consists in the transfer of all power to the Namibian people represented by its national liberation movement, the South West Africa People's Organization [SWAPO]. This organization has indicated its willingness to contribute to a peaceful solution if its proposals are accepted, namely the holding of direct talks only between SWAPO and South Africa. The sole purpose of these talks would be to put an end to colonial domination over Namibia; they must not be part of previous talks with tribal groups and must be preceded by the unconditional release of all political detainees, and, finally, a cease-fire must be decreed and the army of SWAPO must be recognized."
"1The adoption of effective measures by the United Nations to expel South Africa from Namibia has now become obviously urgent, since Pretoria has systematically flouted all the relevant decisions and resolutions of the international community and has used and is continuing to use the Territory of Namibia as a base for aggression against African countries. Last year's invasion of the People's Republic of Angola, which ended in the most humiliating and decisive defeat ever suffered by the racists, their mercenaries and their imperialist tutors, served to draw the attention of the world to the threat to international peace posed by the continuation of South Africa's presence in that Territory. Now, while the General Assembly is in session, the South African regime is maintaining tens of thousands of soldiers concentrated close to the Angolan frontier, continuing to fortify the northern part of Namibia and carrying out constant attacks and provocations against the territory of Angola."
"1The situation in Zimbabwe demands the most careful attention of all progressive countries and forces. Encouraged by the success of Angola and the advance of the revolution in Mozambique, the national liberation movement is giving proof of growing vitality and is carrying out ever more effectively and victoriously its struggle against the Ian Smith clique and its imperialist partners. It is in this context of imminent bankruptcy of the Salisbury regime that Mr. Kissinger decided to carry out his recent and suspicious safari. The purpose of his journey could not have been more obvious. Representing the great North American monopolies which are the main beneficiaries of the exploitation of the peoples of southern Africa and, therefore, those which are more keenly interested in perpetuating the status quo in the region-the head of United States diplomacy is today attempting to serve as a vehicle for a new maneuver designed to save the essence of the racist and colonialist regime imposed on the masses in Zimbabwe. Die main thrust of his proposals-which he reiterated before this Assembly a few days ago-seeks to gain time for the racist minority while promoting division among the nationalist sectors, attempt to suspend the sanctions against the illegal regime and organize the massive invasion of foreign capital, especially United States capital, which would strengthen white domination."
"1Mr. Kissinger's proposals must be rejected. They show that there is a need to strengthen our solidarity with the true freedom fighters of Zimbabwe in their armed struggle which they are engaged in and which will soon lead them to total victory."
"1We must not disregard the fact that a key interlocutor in Mr. Kissinger's recent travels was the head of the racist regime in Pretoria. This is not surprising if we realize that one of the strategic motivations of the present maneuvers of imperialism in Africa is the preservation of the system of oppression and discrimination imposed on millions of Africans by the Government headed by Mr. Vorster. Regardless of the successes of the African liberation move-ment, however numerous its achievements against traditional colonialism, nothing can ever make us forget the fact that Africa will not be entirely free, that no African country can ensure its independence and sovereignty, that no African people can live in peace and security while there continues to exist in South Africa the heinous system of apartheid because there, in the southern extreme of the continent, there is a cancer which attempts to devour all the African peoples; there persists there the most brutal forms of human exploitation; there we find still the crudest manifestation of all that is inhuman, repugnant and hateful that colonialism and racism have meant to the peoples of the third world."
"1The struggle of the people of South Africa against apartheid has therefore acquired an importance going far beyond the boundaries of the continent. The whole world must pay a tribute to the South African workers, students and patriots who, in every corner of the racist territory, have heroically and resolutely raised their voices in protest, have unmasked the brutal and repressive essence of the Vorster regime, and have shown that the African masses are not willing to live with racial oppression. The General Assembly must adopt strong and effective measures against apartheid and in support of the struggle of the South African people, and must definitely reject the policy of \"bantustanization\" and repression practiced by the Vorster clique."
"1The anti-colonial action must be consistent and must encompass all the regions of the world where peoples are denied the exercise of their national rights. We reiterate our support for the struggle of the people of so-called French Somaliland (Djibouti), of Western Sahara, of East Timor, of Belize and of Puerto Rico, as well as of any other territory till subjected to colonialism."
"1It is necessary to solve the problems that have arisen because of colonial domination and that prejudice the sovereignty and territorial integrity of sovereign States. In that connexion we reaffirm our support of the people and Government of the Comoros, which have a just claim over the island of Mayotte, an integral and inseparable part of the territory of the Comoros; we support also the legitimate aspiration of the Argentine Republic to recover the Malvinas Islands."
"1It is indispensable to eliminate the vestiges of the aggressive imperialist policy that still weighs heavily on many States and affects millions of human beings. We must crown the victory of Viet Nam by admitting it to the United Nations very soon. Furthermore, the United States Government must comply with the commitment it assumed, in subscribing to the Paris agreement,  to con-tribute towards healing the wounds of the war that it imposed on that noble people. The international community has a debt of honor to the peoples of IndoChina, which so bravely defended the right of all peoples to decide their own destiny freely by facing up to the most ferocious aggression. Therefore, we are duty bound to give them all the co-operation they may require in their national reconstruction."
"2The so-called Korean question will never be solved without the complete withdrawal of United States troops from South Korea, the dissolution of the United Nations Command and the ending of foreign interference in the affairs of the Korean people. Only in that way will we achieve the peaceful and independent reunification of the Korean nation. My delegation reiterates its support for the efforts of the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to achieve that, goal."
"2The Middle East crisis is still of grave concern to our Organization. A solution to that problem can be found only on the basis of the withdrawal of Israeli troops from the Arab territories occupied since June 1967 and full respect for the inalienable national rights of the Palestinian people. This appears to be an opportune moment to convene the Geneva Peace Conference on the Middle East, in which the Palestine Liberation Organization should participate on an equal footing with all the other parties involved in the conflict. My delegation participated actively in the work of the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian people and supports its recommendations [see A/31/35], which we believe could well trigger the process that will lead to the solution of this burning problem. The tragic events in Lebanon have shocked world public opinion. My delegation reiterates its support for the territorial integrity and independence of Lebanon and the right of its people to solve the country's problems by itself and without violence. It is urgent that an end be put to the fighting from various Arab trenches, since that is depriving the Palestinians of that center of resistance against the common enemy. The continuation of the struggle in Lebanon is helping to strengthen Zionist aggression and the designs of its imperialist allies in the region."
"2Cyprus is still the object of intolerable aggression* which has taken specific form in the occupation of a large part of its territory by foreign troops. Once again we call for their complete and unconditional withdrawal and demand respect for the independence, sovereignty and territorial, integrity of the Republic of Cyprus, a loyal Member of this Organization, and a founding member of the non-aligned movement. The problems that exist between the Cypriot communities will be solved satisfactorily only . on the basis of strict respect for the principles of non-intervention and the sovereign equality of States, principles that have as much validity with regard to Cyprus at they have with regard to any other member of the community of nations. In reiterating our solidarity with the Government of Archbishop Makarios, the sole legitimate authority on the island, my delegation urges the Assembly to adopt effective decisions to put an end to the aggression, to alleviate the tragic conditions of the thousands of refugees in that country, and to restore peace. and justice."
"2The peoples of the world have applauded the process of detente, which promotes the strengthening of world peace, the greatest aspiration of mankind. This process of detente, we repeat, must be strengthened in order that it may become irreversible and universal in character. To that end it is necessary to adopt effective measures for the speedy elimination of colonialism and to ensure respect for the rights of all States, large and small. An important contribution to the cause of peace would be the achievement of concrete progress in disarmament. In that connexion we reiterate our support for the convening of a world disarmament conference. Similarly, we reaffirm* our support for negotiations to achieve effective and strict measures for the total prohibition of the development, production and stockpiling of chemical weapons. Among disarmament measures, we attach priority importance to the elimination of the foreign bases which the imperialists and colonialists have disseminated throughout the world against the will of the peoples. In this connexion we reiterate our demand that the Government of the United States return to Cuba that part of our national territory it usurps in the region of Guantanamo. Equally necessary for the security and peace of the peoples of the Caribbean is the dismantling of United States bases on Puerto Rico and Panamanian territory."
"2The proposal submitted to the Assembly by the Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union, Comrade Andrei Gromyko, relating to the conclusion of a treaty banning the use of force in international relations [A!311243] is further proof of the constructive attitude of the Soviet Government and its desire to improve the international climate. The exclusion of the use of force from international relations is the aspiration and desire of all the peoples of the world, and we therefore trust that that proposal will receive the enthusiastic support of the General Assembly."
"2This year, as we commemorate the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the Amphictyonic Congress of Panama, the peoples of Latin America and the Caribbean are engaged in a decisive struggle to preserve the independence for which they fought so boldly. History Has brought them to a cross-roads where the cause of freedom today demands of Latin Americans the same readiness to fight, the same lucidity in working out the appropriate strategy and the same solidarity that was inculcated in them by Simon Bolivar."
"2The measures for the defense of national sovereignty adopted by some Latin American countries, the growing struggle of our peoples to recover their national wealth, Panama's firm defense of its sovereign rights over the Canal and the. neighboring zone and. the. active international policy of the Government of Mexico have made possible Latin America's participation in the world struggle being waged by the peoples of the third world to establish a new international order based on equity and respect for the rights of all peoples."
"2In these past few years the countries of Latin America have created some instruments which may help to defend their national interests and strengthen their ties of co-operation. The establishment of the Latin American Economic System, the Caribbean Multinational Maritime Transportation Enterprise, the Group of Latin American and Caribbean Sugar-Exporting Countries is the most successful example of this."
"2The peoples of Latin America and the Caribbean are, however, confronted by the attacks of North American imperialism, which is seeking to halt recent advances and to reinstate its domination over the region."
"2North American imperialism is attempting to extend over the map of the continent authoritarian and servile regimes such as that established in Chile on 11 September 1973. Today Latin America is faced with the threat of a fascism dependent on the dictates of Washington, which co-ordinates its repressive practices beyond its national frontiers and commits crimes and engages in torture and persecution that know no geographical or humanitarian limits. The danger this phenomenon represents for the interests of all our peoples is clearly shown by the recent ties established between Pretoria and the regimes in Chile, Uruguay, Paraguay and other South American countries with which the apartheid authorities are seeking to establish a strategic alliance."
"3The international community must resolutely support the Latin American freedom fighters who are resisting the repression of these dictatorial regimes. It will have an occasion to do so in the General Assembly when the report of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Situation of Human Rights in Chile [A/31/253, annex], which was established by the Commission on Human Rights to study the Chilean situation is considered. The information amassed by the Ad Hoc Working Group shows that there are strong grounds for the accusation of those who, having been established in power as a result of imperialist intervention, have unleashed against the Chilean people the most brutal and unbridled repression and terror. Vast sectors of Chilean society are calling for effective international action to put an end to the crimes and excesses of the Pinochet junta. Such action is especially urgent when it is remembered that the agents of the Chilean regime, obsessed by their complete internal isolation and their vigorous repudiation by the international community, are now committing crimes beyond their frontiers. The assassination in Washington barely two weeks ago of the former Foreign Minister of Chile, Orlando Letelier, confirms this fact. His death, like the deaths of thousands of Chilean victims of Fascist terrorism, will be justly dealt with in the not-too-distant future, when the Chilean people recovers its freedom through"
"But now the international community must take strong measures against those who have made terror and crime into standard official policy."
"3The struggle of the Latin American people is not easy, nor will it be easy to stop their relentless march towards freedom."
"3Guyana and Jamaica bravely continue a policy of recovering their national sovereignty and they are making important economic and social changes which open up to their working masses prospects of a future of justice and well-being. Against both processes imperialism and international reaction are launching conspiracy, economic sabotage and hostile propaganda, and, in the case of Guyana, they are also threatening its territorial integrity. Prompted by sincere feelings of brotherhood born of a colonial experience shared for many centuries, Cuba reaffirms its full solidarity with the peoples and Governments of Guyana and Jamaica in their endeavor to consolidate and protect their national independence and to make the social changes that will liberate their peoples for ever from their past of servitude and oppression."
"3Both countries are protagonists in the profound process of renewal that is stirring up the whole Caribbean region."
"3International public opinion must be mobilized in support of full respect for the rights of the Caribbean peoples. After many centuries of colonialist and imperialist outrages, the time has come for those peoples to determine their own destinies freely, without foreign interference. That demand is expressed today particularly in their call for unrestricted respect for the independence, sovereignty, self-determination and territorial integrity of Guyana, Jamaica and other States of the region. It is also necessary to take effective international action once and for all to put an end to manifestations of colonialism in the Caribbean and, especially, to contribute to the struggle of the peoples of Puerto Rico and Belize for their national independence and for full respect for their territorial integrity and their enjoyment of their natural resources."
"3The cause of Panama is considered their own by all the peoples of the region. I am therefore happy to reiterate the support of my Government for its just demand for the full exercise of sovereignty over the Canal and the neighboring zone and our solidarity with the Government of General Omar Torrijos in his strong defense of Panamanian national sovereignty."
"3Cuba confirms its full solidarity with the struggle of the Puerto Rican people for independence. Despite the obstinate opposition of the administering Power, the international community is expressing ever more vigorously its demand that Puerto Rico be allowed to exercise its sacred national rights. Recently, the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples adopted by consensus a decision reaffirming the inalienable right of that people to self- determination and independence, reiterating earlier decisions of the Committee; taking note of decisions on that question adopted by the non-aligned countries at their Colombo and Lima Conferences; and deciding to continue examination of that question next year in order to consider appropriate measures.  My delegation believes that that was a positive decision which will enable the Committee next year to move forward in the adoption of just decisions that will contribute to the liberation of the Puerto Rican people. For our part, we reiterate that we shall continue to give them our support in their just struggle for independence."
"3As we have repeatedly stated, this attitude of Cuba's is in keeping with our policy based on principle and therefore cannot be modified."
"3Economic problems have aroused much attention during the current general debate as a reflection of the growing concern of the developing countries over a situation which calls for strong and effective measures if we truly wish to establish an order of relations that will promote peace and be based on co-operation. The present economic crisis is placing an increasing burden on the peoples of the third world. The Declaration and Program of Action for the Establishment of a New International Economic Order [resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VT)J have remained a dead letter, and the majority of the developed capitalist countries have shown no true will to make changes in the structure of the world economy and trade, which is an inescapable need and a demand that is firmly supported by all the countries of the so-called Group of 77. Meanwhile, the inflationary process continues, and the capitalist world burdens with its consequences the under-developed countries, which in turn do not obtain remunerative prices for their exports or find favorable conditions for the development of their trade. It is imperative that the developing countries strengthen their unity to demand radical changes that will put an end to this unequal exchange and to the burdensome load imposed by external debt on many States, and that will help promote a true transfer of resources for development."
"3An important contribution to this unity and to the development of the developing countries would be for the oil-producing countries to adopt a policy of true co-opera-tion with the other developing countries. "
"4For the Cuban people the past year has been one of intense and fruitful work, it began shortly after the First Congress of the Communist Party of Cuba, which served as the framework for an in-depth study of the national situation, laid the basis for the restructuring and institu-tionalization of the socialist State, traced the guidelines for the first five-year plan, adopted a new system for manage-ment of the economy, and took all-important decisions on the future orientation of Cuban society. This year has as its main orientation the concept of applying, enthusiastically and with confidence in the future, the conclusions of the in-depth, careful analysis carried out by Cuban Commu-nists. Our entire people has undertaken this task with love, dedication and perserverance. In February, with the wide support of the people voiced in a plebiscite, it adopted the new socialist constitution, which enshrines the gains achieved by our working classes and by our people since the revolution of January 1959, and guarantees its definitive institutionalization."
"4In the process of the establishment of genuinely and profoundly democratic machinery through which it will be the people itself which governs, takes decisions and permanently controls State affairs at every level, scarcely a few days ago, throughout my country, free elections were held, by secret and direct ballot, whereby the people elected their representatives. That process will culminate on 2 December with the formation of the National Assembly of the People's Power and the constitution of the main organs of the State and Government."
"4This stage will coincide with the twentieth anniversary of one of the major events in Cuban history: the day on which Fidel Castro and a handful of heroes disembarked on the beaches of Cuba's Oriente Province to begin the final stages of the armed struggle which was to do away with the Batista tyranny and lead to the final liberation of our. homeland."
"4Twenty years ago, Cuba exemplified the degree of domination, poverty, corruption and despotism to which North American imperialism had led our peoples. It was oppressed by a corrupt .and sanguinary military clique which, in the service of Yankee interests, instituted a brutal regime of terror. The struggle to do away with it cost my people 20,000 martyrs, who live today in the hearts and memory of all Cubans and serve as guidance for our revolutionary intransigent decision."
"4Those were hard, agonizing, unforgettable years, which formed the vanguard that was victoriously to lead the Cuban people to the successes represented by the singular honor of making socialism, for the first time, a triumphant reality in the Western Hemisphere."
"4Twenty years later, in the Cuban archipelago, trans-formed radically by the revolution, there emerges a reality which is a lasting tribute to the freedom fighters of Goma. In a space of time brief in historical terms, the revolution dH away fully with illiteracy, unemployment, poverty, racial discrimination, unhealthy conditions and all the social vices of the past. It rescued Cuba's dignity and sovereignty, and marches firmly along the path of economic development. For each of the revolutionary martyrs there are today hundreds of Cubans who, for the first time, have an opportunity to attend the universities of our country; there are scores , of new school centers which all Cuban children may attend; scores of hospitals which guarantee adequate medical attention to all citizens; hundreds of social buildings and housing developments, which ensure for the masses a well-being they had never known before. There are thousands of works of every kind which have completely changed the past backward and feudal image of our country of two decades ago. Each of our martyrs lives in the constant efforts of 9.5 million Cubans, who work feverishly to construct the new society. Those martyrs are reborn with each achievement, with the completion of each new work and with the culmination of each effort."
"4However, we are faced with serious difficulties which will affect our economic development plans. External factors beyond our control will compel our people to make new sacrifices, but our people will be able to face them, thanks to its unyielding revolutionary conscience."
"4Those external factors are the collapse of the price of sugar on the world market which has lowered the value of that product to levels that are no better than those that prevailed during the great crisis of 1931 and 1932; the persistent rise in the price of many items of equipment, machinery and primary commodities which we must import with the hard currency that we obtain from the depreciated value of our sugar; a severe drought which has seriously affected the eastern provinces of Cuba and substantially damaged important areas of our agricultural production; and the maintenance of the economic and trade blockade imposed on Cuba by North American imperialism which prevents our country from having access to international credit institutions and drastically limits our capacity for export. This last is reflected particularly in the closing of many markets to Cuban nickel, which could have been one of the few export products that might have compensated my country for the critical situation in which it now finds itself as a result of the decline in the price of sugar. The recent decision of the Government of the United States to triple the import duty on sugar in the American market is an aggression against sugar-exporting countries and will help to aggravate further the crisis in the sugar trade in world markets."
"4Considering these problems last 28 September, Comrade Fidel Castro, the Prime Minister of the Revolutionary Government of Cuba, stated:"
"\"Of course, the news of our difficulties may make our enemies happy, but they do not know us well. We know the times in which we live. We know how much the world still has to go through as a result of the unequal system of trade and the exploitation to which the third world is subjected by the developed capitalist countries. We know that the world is subjected by the developed capitalist countries. We know that the world has still to change a great deal. We know that the road of revolution is long, not only the road of the Cuban people's revolution but also that of world-wide revolution, and that the underdeveloped countries will have, for many years, to face these problems.\""
"4Despite all these obstacles, the Cuban people will continue, firmly and perseveringly, along the road of revolution. Hie serious economic difficulties of the present will not affect the maintenance of basic social services which, in the fields of public health and education, have already reached levels of which we are legitimately proud. Neither will they affect the living conditions of the masses. It is precisely in these moments of trial and tribulation that we see clearly the superiority of socialism in facing up to difficulties without placing on the working masses the weight of the consequences of economic reverses."
"5While I-am speaking before you, the peoples of Cuba and of Guyana are in mourning. Barely a week ago the Cuban people witnessed a further manifestation of the brutality of its enemies and of their miserable and cowardly actions. A DC-8 aircraft of the Cuban Airlines was a victim of criminal sabotage in the waters of Barbados, which cost the lives of all those aboard. In connexion with this serious incident, the Revolutionary Government of Cuba will, tomorrow, Friday, make an important statement which we will distribute in due course to delegations."
"5Our people will continue, with unswerving determination, on its revolutionary course. It will continue to raise the banners of socialism; it will continue to hold high the internationalist principles of its foreign policy; it will persist in its decision to defend its small territory and maintain it as an impregnable bastion of revolution. Nothing and no one can divert it from its course, because it knows that it is accompanied in its march by the solidarity of all those who are fighting for freedom all over the world; because it is impelled and encouraged by the mandate of thousands of Cubans who fell along a road bathed with blood and marked with sacrifice and heroism over a central of struggle for freedom and independence; because it knows that however many the obstacles, however great the difficulties at present, however great the sacrifices imposed by a world that is still unjust and unequal, the future is in the hands of the peoples who struggle and the future belongs entirely to socialism."
"23 Mr. President, may I first express  you how joyfully the Government and people of Cuba welcome the entry of triumphant, united and socialist Viet Nam to the United Nations."
"23General Antonio Maceo, an illustrious Cuban patriot, who fell in battle fighting for the independence of our island, said that you do not beg for rights, you win them with the sword's edge. The right to become a Member of this Organization was won by the people of Viet Nam with the sword's edge, with a heroic struggle which inflicted a historic defeat on the imperialist armed forces which attempted to impose partition and neo-colonialism on the country."
"23The admission of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam is a great victory for its people, but it is also a victory for all progressive forces; a victory for the socialist community, which gave it its moral and material solidarity; for the movement of the non-aligned countries, which supported its struggle; for world public opinion, and even for public opinion in the United States, which opposed the fierce aggression unleashed by imperialism against Viet Nam. The admission of Viet Nam was also possible because of the conditions which these forces created in favour of peace and coexistence."
"23At this time it is important to recall that the United States is morally and legally committed to contribute to healing the wounds of the war which it started against Viet Nam. The General Assembly and other organs of the system must advocate and facilitate that contribution. Those who yesterday massively and indiscriminately bombed homes, hospitals, roads, railways, factories and temples, cannot today flee from the obligation to make a substantial contribution for reparation of the vast damages caused."
"23Together with the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, the Republic of Djibouti joins our Organization. To their people and Government we extend our warmest congratulations."
"23Djibouti is the forty-ninth African State, and this fact bears witness to the relentless advance of the movement of national liberation, which in the last decade succeeded in destroying the old colonialist empires. The contribution which the new independent States have made to the United Nations cannot be overlooked. With the Organization's membership trebling it has really come close to the universality postulated by its constituent documents and its debates reflect the expression of the opinions and interests of the immense majority of the nations of the world."
"23Thus, in the decisions of the organs of the United Nations we find an echo of the victories of the socialist community, of the movements of national liberation and of the workers of the world in their struggle for peace and for the eradication of colonialism, neo-colonialism, apartheid and discrimination-that is to say, the elimination of imperialism."
"24An impregnable bastion of this cause is the homeland of Lenin, the Soviet Union, which  came into being during the glorious October Revolution and which, by defeating the Russian tsarist regime, liberating the people chained to its domination and creating the first proletarian State of the world, opened up a new era for mankind characterized by a general crisis for imperialism."
"24The people, the Communist Party and the Government of Cuba wish to pay a heartfelt tribute to the sixtieth anniversary of the triumph of the Revolution led by the Bolshevik Party, with the noble Vladimir Ilich Lenin at its head. We appreciate the enormous economic, scientific, cultural and all other successes of the Soviet people, which by building communism is able to enjoy, without exploiting any other people or robbing them of the products of their labour, constantly improving standards of living within a structure in which respect for human rights is guaranteed for every individual and for the nation as a whole."
"24We are equally pleased to note that the internationalist ideals of the October Revolution are obvious today, as they appear in the agreements and resolutions of the Twenty-Fourth and Twenty-Fifth Congresses of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, in the tenacious defence of detente and peace, and in the historical peace decree signed by Lenin, ideals which, founded on the military power of the Soviet people and placed it at the service of its own defence and that of the sovereignty and independence of peoples, as well as at the service of that policy of peace, bind ever more tightly the aggressive hands of imperialism. This internationalism is also revealed in the firm and decided moral and material support which the Soviet Union has given and continues to give to national liberation movements resisting colonialism and apartheid, to the anti colonialist and anti-imperialist forces, and to any country invoking its just national interests in defence of its sovereignty and peaceful and independent development. This is proved by its assistance to Viet Nam, Cuba and Angola."
"24The fact that the thirty-second session of the General Assembly began with the admission of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam at a time close to the sixtieth anniversary of the Great October Revolution is an augury that its work will be fruitful and successful."
"24Our delegation joins in the general pleasure expressed at the election of Comrade Lazar Mojsov to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly. It is particularly satisfying to greet in him the representative of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, with which we have many brotherly ties of friendship and co-operation. His election is, furthermore, a recognition of the efforts of the Government of Yugoslavia and President Tito, as they are in the -forefront among peoples struggling to build a new society, free from exploitation, and international relations based on the principles of the United Nations Charter. His important contribution to the movement of non-aligned countries and the support given him by the members of that group will, together with his personal competence, contribute to his successful guidance of the work of this session of the Assembly."
"24Our delegation considers that a trend favourable to the cause of peace, independence and progress still predominates in international relations. In past years we witnessed the victories of the peoples of Viet Nam, Laos, Cambodia and Angola as well as the triumph of the national liberation movements in the former Portuguese colonies; today we see the growing isolation and universal rejection of apartheid and racism, and the trend towards the independence of Zimbabwe, Namibia and the liberation of the people of South Africa, a rejection which is strongly evident even in important sectors among the major capitalist Powers which are the allies and supporters of the Pretoria regime."
"24There is a growing trend towards peace and security, the strengthening and deepening of detente, a halt to the arms race, and the economic and social development of all peoples."
"24The Declarations of the last two Conferences of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries are a solid basis for co-ordinated action by this important group of countries in favour of the advance of the anti-imperialist and progressive positions. The community of interests among the socialist countries and the underdeveloped peoples has made it possible to put an end to the mechanical majority which in the past ruled the Organization, and to open up a period of important definitions and decisions which, inter alia, recognized the legitimacy of the struggle against colonialism, neo-colonialism, racism and apartheid and resulted in documents such as that on the new international economic order and the Charter on Economic Rights and Duties of States."
"24Imperialism, having suffered defeats at the hands of the liberation movements in Asia, Africa and Latin America, facing an indissoluble community of socialist countries in whose favour the correlation of international forces is moving step by step, and having failed to sustain its own economic development and to resolve inequalities and injustices in its own societies, suffered a grave political and moral crisis in its main institutions of power and is now going through a serious economic crisis."
"24This situation is compelling imperialism to seek to adjust its policy in order to survive the new facts of life, and to move back and attempt to find a new image for old claims."
"25The representatives of the major capitalist Powers are very free with expressions implying corrections of injustices and acts of aggression, and promising attention to the just claims of the developing world. We hope that these words will be translated into deeds, but we must not abandon the triumphs which we have obtained nor the positions which we have reached or reduce our vigilance."
"25It is not difficult to single out those who by old means and new are still determined to prevent the free expression of the will of peoples, to halt the progressive march of history, to repress and destroy revolutionary processes and the progressive Governments which  are moving ahead despite external political, military and economic harassment."
"25Those who uphold colonialism and neo-colonialism are organizing their dependent Governments most carefully so as to promote disunion, fratricidal wars and division among the non-aligned countries and among all progressive forces with a view to impeding the advance and consolidation of progressive tendencies."
"25There must be unity among all those who hope to consolidate peace and detente, attain the final elimination of colonialism and apartheid, advance general and complete disarmament and arrive at new just and equitable international economic relations. History both within and outside this forum proves that those who share these objectives are the socialist countries, the non-aligned countries and other countries guided by a desire for genuine international co-operation."
"25May I emphasize that we must be particularly alert to the tactic of the imperialists to promote and incite war so as to force a review of the frontiers left by the colonial era and the annexation of colonial territories under various guises."
"25Cuba maintains that such conflicts among the non- aligned and the under-developed countries in general must be resolved by negotiation without having recourse to the use of force, by seeking closer co-operation without territorial claims and, above all, without allowing any room for the divisive aims of imperialism. In this respect Cuba advocates a peaceful solution of the conflict between the brotherly peoples of Somalia and Ethiopia, within the context of their respective revolutionary frameworks."
"25The Ethiopian people have shaken off the secular yoke of feudal domination and have undertaken the revolutionary course of- giving the land to those who labour on it, carrying out urban reform, opening up education and culture to the vast masses and increasing attention to health, and this has inspired the support and solidarity of all peoples, and also the threats and aggressions of imperialist and reactionary forces."
"25If the revolutionary regime of Ethiopia were overthrown it would be impossible to arrive at any just solution of the claims now made by imperialism in order to pit the neighbours of Ethiopia against it."
"25Cuba considers that the process of revolutionary development which eliminates social, racial and national inequalities is the sole guarantee for the solving of the complex national and tribal problems which history has left behind in the countries of Africa and Asia."
"25Cuba supports the right of Ethiopia to defend itself from any external aggression."
"26The common heritage of colonialism for all peoples, but particularly for the Africans, was backwardness, poverty, illiteracy, and ill-health. After decades of colonial exploitation and administration, there emerged into independence peoples for whom no university had been built, for whom no doctor had been trained, for whom no schools, teachers, educational or health systems had been provided. The colonialist and neo-colonialist metropolitan Powers of those peoples contracted a tremendous debt which they must inevitably pay. We consider that the developed capitalist countries which benefited from colonial domination should, through adequate financing for development, compensate for the resources they obtained so as to begin to correct the ills left behind by centuries of pitiless exploitation."
"26It is our own efforts, of course, which are the basis of development; but it is necessary to have recourse to co-operation and collaboration among developing countries. Cuba has made an important but modest effort in this respect. Despite the economic blockade imposed on our country by the United States, and the restrictions caused by it, we have been sending doctors., teachers, agricultural technicians and building brigades to other under-developed countries which requested them."
"26After the visit made by the Comrade President of the Council of Slate, Commander Fidel Castro, to eight African and Arab countries during the month of March last, these efforts have been intensified. The supreme leader of the Cuban revolution, following the most glorious inter  nationalist traditions of our people, has called upon the youth of the universities and the professionals of Cuba to provide their know-how to other lands, in the conviction that the deepest brotherhood unites all peoples of the world, and that we are obliged to share the still scarce resources we have with those who for so many years have been denied the recognition of their dignity and human rights."
"26Allow me to emphasize that Cuba considers that the task of doing away with the poverty left behind by colonialism is one of the most urgent tasks of this Organization and the entire international community."
"26The time that has elapsed since the last session has seen intense diplomatic activity by the representatives of the allies of Pretoria and Salisbury, who are making every effort to prevent the struggle of the peoples of Zimbabwe, Namibia and South Africa from being consolidated and strengthened, and from thus finally achieving the complete and real liquidation of the regime of exploitation they now suffer under."
"26Those who seek to present themselves as friends of Africa are the very ones who have facilitated, and still facilitate, for the apartheid regime the acquisition of every kind of armament, factories for manufacturing war material, and even technology and nuclear fuel which make it possible for the Pretoria authorities to possess nuclear weapons. Can anyone affirm that those who desire the freedom of the African peoples are those who arm the forces of South Africa and Rhodesia? Do they aspire to a just solution when, through the transnational corporations rid trade with South Africa, they benefit from the exploitation of the black people of that country?"
"26In Africa a new situation has arisen because of the overthrow of Portuguese imperialism and the relentless advance of the national liberation movements. Those who supported Portuguese fascism until the end and who gave unstinting support to the racist regimes have been compelled to recognize in words that it is necessary to change the situation in southern Africa. Within this context the colonialists and the imperialists have been compelled to adjust their tactics and to promote manoeuvres intended to twist the course of the emancipation process and to preserve their interests. But peoples do not forget the lessons learned in the struggles for independence; and in particular they will never forget the lessons of the Congo and of the death of Patrice Lumumba. We must affirm that for any change in the region to be acceptable and to lead to a genuine solution, there must be a total eradication of apartheid and colonialist-racist exploitation, and the complete liberation of the peoples of Zimbabwe, Namibia and South Africa. As long as these objectives are not attained, peoples have an irrevocable right to continue the battle by the means"
"26While the African peoples face a crucial stage in their struggle, some pseudo-revolutionaries who have become outspoken allies of imperialism and racism, are tireless in their slander and intrigue, uselessly seeking to promote division in the revolutionary ranks, Bands fall and bands rise. But so far, regrettably, they persist in the same despicable course of treachery and felony. The band of yesterday has no scruples about arming the mercenaries who committed aggression against the people of Angola. Even today that band has not yet realized that the African peoples reject their scandalous collusion with the racists. That is why on Thursday last the General Assembly heard, a singular statement. After having detailed the harmful consequences of the action of defeated bandits, the representative of that Power used the same language which, during his transitory reign, made the spokesman of the band famous."
"26Cuba reiterates its support for the peoples of Zimbabwe, Namibia and South Africa in their difficult, heroic but surely victorious struggle."
"26As has often been said, the phenomenon of colonialism is not limited exclusively to southern Africa nor even 10 Africa; and we cannot feel satisfied as long as a people remains that is denied the application of resolution 1514 (XV) and access to independence and self- determination."
"27Now that colonialism is reaching its final stage, we can observe that the manoeuvres of the colonial metropolitan Powers are proliferating and all kinds of formulas are being .drawn up to conceal relations of colonial dependency. It is therefore necessary to increase our solidarity and support for these peoples, and to prevent the expansionist attempts of the colonial metropolitan States, in the conviction that as long as a colonial territory persists there will be, besides a persisting injustice, a hotbed of potential conflict and a threat to international peace and security."
"27In this context we reiterate our support for the struggle of the peoples of Western Sahara and of East"
"Timor. We reaffirm our support for the people and Government of the Comoros and their just claim to the island of Mayotte and for the legitimate aspiration of the Argentine Republic to recover the Malvinas Islands. We reject the expansionist plans which the United States is hatching with regard to the island of Guam and the Micronesian territories."
"27In particular, we draw the attention of this Assembly to the threats to which the people of Belize are subjected. As is well known, their territory does not accede to independence because the reactionary dictatorship which oppresses Guatemala is prepared to annex it by force as soon as the Administering Authority withdraws."
"27It is fitting to recall that the present Government of Guatemala descends directly from the one imposed in 1954 by an act of aggression organized and financed by the Central Intelligence Agency, as is now publicly recognized."
"27In the last months, the diplomatic talks between the imperialists and the servants of the Guatemalan Government, and the bellicose declarations of the latter warrant our assumption that plans are being hatched against the people of Belize. Cuba renews its support for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Belize."
"27During the proceedings of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, at the end of August and the beginning of September there was a lengthy debate on the colonial situation of Puerto Rico."
"27A long list of petitioners of every political orientation amply demonstrated to the world three facts, namely, first, that there exists a situation of colonial domination in Puerto Rico; secondly, that the United Nations must take action to implement resolution 1514 (XV); and, thirdly, that all the petitioners were in favour of freedom for the political prisoners."
"27Those who attempted to compare the traditional support of for the people of Puerto Rico with a capricious or arbitrary attitude can find a denialif that were needed-in the records of that Committee. Or; that occasion, Cuba reiterated its support for the independence and self-determination of the people of Puerto Rico; it supported the requests for the liberation of the Puerto Rican political prisoners, especially Lolita Lebron, Andres Figueroa, Irving Flores, Oscar Collazo and Rafael Cancel, who have languished for more than 20 years in United States gaols because they fought for the independence of their country."
"27Next year, the Special Committee will again consider the item, and it is obvious that it will be difficult to avoid the responsibility of adopting the resolutions that fit this case."
"27In the Middle East, the situation, far from improving, has deteriorated since the last session of the General"
"Assembly, tension has increased and the just peace that would lead to the resolution of all the factors of the crisis seems more remote than ever. The action of the Government of Israel in continuing to establish new Israeli settlements in the occupied territories and in extending Israeli legislation to the East Bank of the Jordan and the provocative declarations made with regard to the occupied territories by the Tel Aviv Prime Minister prove the real expansionist intentions of Israel. Furthermore, the intervention of Israeli military forces in southern Lebanon constitutes an aggression against that independent State and a new cause of disturbance. In the meantime, the allies of Tel Aviv and other reactionaries seek by their diplomatic and military manoeuvres to ignore the rights of the Palestinian people and to divide the Arab peoples. Cuba reiterates that the solution of the crisis can only lie in complete respect for the inalienable national rights of the Palestinian people and in the withdrawal of Israeli troops from all Arab territories occupied since June 1967. We deem it to be of the utmost urgency that the Peace Conference on the"
"276. Together with the other non-aligned countries, we support the declaration that was approved at the special meeting of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the countries of the non-aligned movement held last 30 September I see A/32/255-S/12410/."
"211. When referring to the situation in Cyprus, we cannot fail to express the profound sorrow of our Government and people at ,the death of Archbishop Makarios, an honest patriot and loyal representative of his people. His decease is now being used as an occasion for intensifying the division in the island. We demand the total and unconditional withdrawal of all foreign troops from Cyprus and call for respect for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of that non-aligned State."
"27Foreign troops are still present in South Korea, thus preventing the peaceful and independent reunification of Korea, by providing support to the brutal dictatorship of Park Chung Hee. We call for the withdrawal of all foreign troops and all military equipment from Korea and the dissolution of the United Nations Command, and we renew our support of the just demands for the implementation of those objectives made by the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea."
"27The Government of Cuba is making every effort to consolidate, extend and render irreversible the process of international detente. To contribute to this we have unequivocally supported the proposal of the Soviet Union regarding a treaty to prohibit the use of force in international relations. Likewise, we support the convening of a World Disarmament Conference and are working for it actively in the Preparatory Committee for the Special Session of the General Assembly devoted to Disarmament, to be held next year."
"28We are deeply disturbed at the rise in military expenditure by the United States Government and its allies in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and particularly at its decision to continue research into and manufacture of neutron bombs and the cruise missile, all of which are moves in the direction of the promotion of a new stage in the arms race and warrant our assumption that they are a dangerous threat to peace and security."
"28The decision to build a neutron bomb has aroused just and angry universal protest, because the nature of that bomb reveals the contempt of the Pentagon strategists for humanity. It is our hope that the General Assembly at this session will repudiate and condemn such decisions."
"28As a contribution to the disarmament process, Cuba has signed or has acceded to the following treaties: the Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of Nuclear Weapons and Other Weapons of Mass Destruction on the Sea-Bed and Ocean Floor and in the Subsoil Thereof; the Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies; and the Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile Use of Environmental Modification Techniques."
"28A few months ago, in a dubious manoeuvre, the United States Government signed Additional Protocol I of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco), thereby claiming to demonstrate its peaceful intentions towards its neighbours to the south. For those intentions to gain credence, for us to be able to accept the peaceful nature of its will it would be enough if that Government, instead of limiting itself to signing documents subject to diverse interpretations, would take the practical action of removing its military bases from Puerto Rico, Panama and Cuba; if it would cease to claim to consider the Virgin Islands as part of its continental territory, thus removing it from the denuclearized zone, even though it is at the very heart of it; and if it would cease every act of aggression and hostility against all countries of the region."
"28During the past year, the peoples of Latin America and the Caribbean have continued their historic struggle for the cause of their genuine independence and defence of their national sovereignty."
"28It is important to recall that that is one of the zones in the world where a great number of acts of aggression and intervention in the internal affairs of States were committed, where plans were hatched to assassinate Heads of Government and where territories were occupied in defiance of the will of the peoples by North American imperialism and its institutions and, in particular, by the CIA."
"28Within the context of this struggle, the people of Panama has just brought to a climax one of the phases that will lead to its recovery of full sovereignty over its national territory. The efforts made by the Government and people of Panama, headed in this decisive phase by General Torrijos, compelled the Government of the United States to recognize the right of Panama to total sovereignty over its lands and waters."
"28This lengthy, patient and valiant struggle of the people of Panama, as the Panamanian leaders themselves have said, has not ended. Or the one hand, major forces within the United States Senate are obstinately impeding the recognition of the legitimacy of Panamanian aspirations, thus holding up the ratification of the treaties that have been signed. Furthermore, there is the possibility that imperialist and reactionary aggressive forces will try to hamper the progressive exercise by Panama of the sovereign rights which the treaties restore to it over the course of time."
"28On the other hand, the United States Government has not renounced the right it accords itself of guaranteeing what it calls  the neutrality of the Canal . History has demonstrated that the only force which has prevented the Panama Canal from being neutral has been the United States itself."
"28The Cuban people under the leadership of the President of the Council of State, Comrade Fidel Castro, has been with Panama in its long struggle and we shall continue to be on its side. We cannot fail to rejoice in the victory that the recent signing of the treaties represents."
"29Another important fact has been the development of some of the institutions, such as the Latin American Economic System, which have emerged in the last year and which aim to defend the national interests of our peoples. Their viability and effectiveness have been demonstrated, although they are still in an initial stage."
"29In the southern part of the continent, the Fascist junta which has oppressed the people of Chile since 1973, has added to its long list of crimes, misdeeds and treachery against co-operation among Latin American countries. While international public opinion has compelled it to change the name of its institutions of repression and to launch a press campaign intended to create the impression that political prisoners have been released, in fact the repression and terror continue unabated, as determined by the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Situation of Human Rights in Chile, set up by the Commission on Human Rights to investigate the present situation in Chile. The Santiago authorities adopted the system of having those who were detained disappear without their families knowing what had become of them. Let us recall the desperate action of a group of those families when they occupied the offices of ECLA in Santiago, Chile, and demanded news of their fathers, sons and brothers who had disappeared. The junta has not yet complied with the commitments which it entered into at that time with the representatives of the United Nations."
"29The reactionary forces which, by means of Fascist terror try to maintain their oppressive rule over Chile, Uruguay, Paraguay and other countries and which have shamelessly joined forces with the Vorster apartheid regime, will one day be held to account by their peoples, whose determination to struggle they have not been able to overcome."
"29A debate is still going on regarding a critical situation which particularly affects the developing countries."
"29The gap between the developed and the developing countries has become wider because of the continued deterioration in the terms of trade and because of the growing effects of inflation and recession in the developed capitalist countries, together with their arbitrary international monetary system."
"29The world economy has been characterized by a rise in the foreign debt of the developing countries, which have no oil, by their growing balance-of-payments difficulties. These are compounded by a decrease in the purchasing power of their exports and by greater limitations on their access to the markets of the industrialized countries of the West that are rendered more severe by a renewed tendency towards protectionism on the part of those countries."
"29Despite repeated denunciations of the situation, the developed capitalist countries have not taken any action which would contribute to change this assessment."
"29The Conference on International Economic Cooperation during its 18 months of work frustrated the expectations that many developing countries had of it. The inflexible positions of the developed capitalist countries participating in that Conference clearly demonstrated that they are not prepared to give up the benefits and the profits which they have for centuries enjoyed by exploiting the resources of the developing world."
"29The Group of 77, the Foreign Ministers of which met on 29 September last [see A/32/244!, arrived at the same conclusions."
"29Nevertheless, the developing countries have drawn valuable lessons from the lack of positive results of the Paris Conference. On the one hand, we learned the importance of maintaining unity and solidarity in the developing world as the only way effectively to meet the repeated attempts to divide us, and to act collectively for our common objectives. On the other hand, it enabled us to confirm the opinion that the only appropriate and representative organ for activities of this kind was the United Nations system. Further, we learned that it is essential that before negotiations of this kind are started, the objectives pursued must be clearly outlined and the results to be obtained must be defined in advance. In this respect, the General Assembly, as an organ for political decisions, must play an essential role. At the same time, the General Assembly must guarantee that fixed time-limits are agreed on for the pursuit and conclusion of negotiations."
"30My delegation is prepared to continue to play a constructive role during the debates of the thirty-second session, particularly with respect to agenda item 67. Yet, we strongly feel it is essential that the principles that should govern international economic relations based on justice and equity, on an absence of discrimination because of differences in economic and social systems, and on common interest and co-operation among States should remain in full force and should prevail in the debates which are to be held and in the conclusions which are to be reached."
"30We must not forget that in this context the negotiations to be carried out will not constitute an end in themselves, but a means to accelerate the real and effective establishment of the new international economic order."
"30To that end, we consider that the basis for our work is constituted by the Declaration and the Programme of"
"Action adopted at the sixth special session of the General Assembly and the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, which contain the basic principles necessary for establishing new structures for international economic relations."
"30We, the developing countries, have an important role to play in bringing the new international economic order into being. On the one hand, we must persist in the efforts we have undertaken to develop economic and technical co-operation among ourselves. In this task the non-aligned movement has an important role to play. And we must encourage those developing countries which have considerable surplus finances to extend financial co-operation to those that have suffered appreciably from the effects of the crisis. That is a fundamental principle to be borne in mind in all areas of our co-operation."
"30On the other hand, we also have the task of making a decisive contribution so that the strategy for the third United Nations development decade can break free of the frustrating patterns which were characteristic of the first and second Decades and be realistically adjusted to the purposes and objectives of the new international economic order."
"30On 10 October next, 109 years will have elapsed since the Cuban nation began its struggle for emancipation. The details of that long struggle have been recounted more than once and I shall therefore confine myself to saying that for 30 years the Mambi Army, which was the name of the army of our soldiers who fought for independence, confronted the powerful forces of the colonial mother country in an intermittent war which cost us almost half the population of the island of- Cuba. When the heroic struggle seemed to be on the brink of ending in victory for the Cubans, and when the colonial government confessed that it had not a cent more nor a soldier more to contribute to the war in Cuba, nascent North American imperialism intervened, and thus we were prevented from enjoying the fruits that were- ours by right, and Cuba became a neo-colonialist republic and remained so until 1959."
"30During all those years of pseudo-independence, the illustrious people of my country, honest patriots and militant revolutionaries, kept the flame lit on 10 October 1868 from being extinguished under neo-colonialist oppression."
"30The price paid as a result of foreign domination is high. Part of our territory, Guantanamo, was occupied by the United States  in perpetuity  under one of the treaties characteristic of the time; the economy of our island was totally distorted and it became a source of wealth for foreigners and of misery for Cubans."
"30On 1 January 1959 we achieved true independence and the exercise of sovereignty and we Cubans were able to conduct our foreign and domestic policy in accordance with our own interests, within the framework of respect for the rules of international law and peaceful coexistence."
"30It is not my intention here to give a long description of the economic, political and military aggression unleashed against the people of Cuba since it became master of its own destiny and acted accordingly. Suffice it to say that that aggression was initiated, as has been proved today by the investigations of the United States Senate itself, even before laws were enacted to restore to the Cuban nation its wealth, which remained in the hands of foreigners."
"31Since the first acts of hostility and aggression which we have suffered, the Government of Cuba has clearly expressed its desire to negotiate with regard to any differences which might exist with the Government of the United States and any claims, as long as the requirements of mutual respect and complete equality are observed. That desire has been the constant guide of my Government."
"31Already in 1960, when Commander Fidel Castro spoke here in this Assembly,2 4 he referred to that position of ours and quoted several notes addressed by the Government of Cuba to the Government of the United States which prove that point."
"31Yet it was not negotiations that followed but acts of aggression-the economic blockade of Cuba, the promotion of subversion, a campaign for Cuban citizens to leave their country and move to the United States, and the infiltration of paid CIA agents, the mercenary aggression of Playa Giron, and attempts at direct aggression during the so-called crisis of October 1962."
"31Nevertheless, Cuba unswervingly maintained its position. We continued to believe that the existing situation could be the subject of future negotiations to the benefit of both and to the advantage of international relations as a whole. However, the prerequisite of any negotiation is and will continue to be the cessation of all acts of hostility or aggression against Cuba and complete equality and mutual respect. That is why we cannot expect such negotiations to take effect as long as the blockade, a unilateral act taken by the Government of the United States, continues in force."
"31During the past months, the development of relations between the United States and Cuba has apparently taken a turn in the direction of respect for the rule of international law regarding peaceful coexistence. The Government of the United States has suspended the espionage flights which illegally violated our air space; North American citizens are once again allowed to visit Cuba and we have satisfactorily negotiated an agreement regulating the limits of the economic maritime zone of Cuba, and the exclusive fishing zone of the United States. These steps have created the necessary basis for proceeding, on the motion of the United States Government and with our agreement, to open a section on United States affairs in the Swiss Embassy at Havana and one on Cuban affairs in the Czechoslovakian Embassy in Washington."
"31We believe that both parties have made gestures and taken steps which are lessening the tension that has existed for many years in the Caribbean."
"31Nevertheless, despite everything that has passed, the blockade is still in effect and it is thus not possible to begin substantive negotiations on the claims and other matters pending between both parties."
"31Nor can we forget the continuance of the arbitrary occupation of a part of Cuban territory that cannot be separated from the rest and that we cannot renounce, that is, the so-called Guantanamo Naval Base. Nor can we forget that the blockade and the military aggression have inflicted grave losses of every kind on our people and have hampered our economic and social development. Such losses must be compensated for at the proper time."
"31The Government of Cuba considers that it has n obligation to the international community to continue to demonstrate its willingness to resolve pending questions, when the requirements of mutual respect have been fulfilled. As has been stated since the beginning of the Revolution by its greatest leaders, it is not our intention to live in an atmosphere of permanent hostility with the United States. On the contrary, geographical and historical conditions exist which should be conducive to the existence of normal State relations between both countries."
"31However, above and. beyond such considerations there must be respect for the historic victories achieved by our nation, which took to the battlefield in 1868-victories that we shall not renounce at any price. Cuba will choose its friends, will assist those who ask for help, will develop its own institutions in accordance with its own economic and social system and will be ready to defend its country; it will not recognize capricious interpretations of the limits of its sovereignty, nor of its external or internal affairs."
"32Furthermore, the aim of isolating Cuba politically has resulted in the most ridiculous failure. Today our country maintains normal diplomatic relations with more than 100 States, and thousands of Cubans, at the request of friendly countries, contribute to their development."
"32Proof of this failure lies in the fact that we are now enthusiastically preparing to receive at Havana in 1979 the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, a movement of which Cuba was a founder member, together with 24 other countries, in 1961 and which today has more than 80 full-fledged members. The weight and influence of this movement in international relations in our time cannot be overlooked. Faithful to the principles of anti-colonialism and anti-neo-colonialism mentioned in our statements, and actively participating in the programme for economic co-operation, our people appreciates the high honour accorded it as host to the heads of State or Government of more than half the countries of the world."
"32In concluding, may I quote from a statement made by the President of the Council of State of Cuba, Commander Fidel Castro, on 28 September:"
"We are a country that believes in the need for peace among all peoples in the world We are a country that believes in the need to avert a world war, which would be a holocaust of mankind. We believe in the need to prevent an arms race and a return to the cold war. We are a country prepared to live according to the norms of international law and to respect all other States as our State and our people are respected."
NA
NA
"19While this United Nations General Assembly session is being held a number of conflicts have attracted the attention of the peoples of the world."
"19An African poet once said that there is something ominous about silence. Today we cannot, and do not wish to, remain silent about the situation confronting the worthy people of Nicaragua, the legendary homeland of Augusto Cesar Sandino, who was called the glorious \"General of Free Men\". It was Sandino who once told the United States imperialists;"
"\"Then come and kill us in our land; I await you at the head of my soldier patriots, and we do not care how many of you there are. But understand this: if that happens, our blood will stain the white dome of the famous White House, that den of criminal plans.\""
"19Striving to attain political power, inspired by Sandino's example to open up new avenues to a different and better future, fighting from improvised barricades thrown up in the cities and from entrenched columns in the wild mountains, the Nicaraguan revolutionaries have pushed the dictator Somoza and his regime to the verge of collapse using hunting rifles, side arms and home-made bombs."
"19The scientific analysis of social processes shows that when an idea becomes a part of mass consciousness it is transformed into a powerful material force and that when the people decide to throw off the yoke that oppresses them, nothing can stop them."
"19Somoza has resorted to every type of repression in an effort to crush the popular uprising. He has trampled upon human rights, violated public liberties and enthroned barbarity and genocide, and has even used groups of mercenaries, among them Vietnamese and Cuban counterrevolutionaries recruited in a number of countries, particularly the United States and certain Central American States."
"19This situation has created a real source of possible attacks by the Somoza regime against neighbouring States, as has already occurred with the bombing of Costa Rican territory, which has endangered peace throughout the area."
"20Our Assembly should denounce the Somoza regime as a monster that has emerged under the generous shadow of the Yankee occupation and reject the credentials of the delegation from that dictator, who is repudiated by his people and by all progressive mankind; it should condemn the use of mercenary groups sent to crush the struggle of the Nicaraguan people, and condemn all military or economic assistance to the tyrannical regime in Managua."
"20The Middle East is another focal point of crisis on the international scene. If we believe what the great press of the capitalist world says, we can assume that advances towards peace in the Middle East have been made, but if, instead, we look at what has happened in recent months we shall be forced to admit that the reality is quite different."
"20At the last regular session of the General Assembly we stated that \"the allies of Tel Aviv and other reactionaries seek by their diplomatic and military manoeuvres to ignore the rights of the Palestinian people .. .\".  Those manoeuvres have been deviously expressed in the dubious results of the Camp David meetings, which pretend that the Arab States follow the downward path of unprincipled concessions to the enemy even to the point of betraying the Arab peoples-as the Arab States of the Front for Steadfastness, other Arab Governments and the Palestine Liberation Organization have charged."
"20There is no acknowledgment of the fact that Israel, with the ever-present help of its allies, chiefly the United States, continues to occupy territory belonging to the Arab States of Egypt, Jordan and Syria. There is equally stubborn refusal to allow the Palestinian people to satisfy their most basic national rights. The fact that Israeli troops recently launched a new act of aggression by driving deep into Lebanon and occupying part of its territory for a time, fiercely repressing progressive forces and attacking the Palestinian refugee camps, is completely overlooked. That act of war took place at a time when every effort was being made to make the world believe that peace was at hand."
"20The truth, which cannot be brushed aside by defeatist statements or agreements, is that, when Israel was faced with the undeniable existence of the Palestine nation and the determination of its representatives to struggle for their infringed rights, it chose to practise genocide against that people."
"20The history of diplomacy has recognized peace by treaty. The history of the people will recognize peace by conscience. There is no peace of conscience when the principles of those who died fighting for a social ideal are betrayed. One does not have to be a prophet to know that accounts will be settled some day, and not exactly on the Day of Judgement."
"20Representatives should ask themselves whether the Tel Aviv Government could take this action without the material and moral support of the United States Government."
"20The struggle of the Arab peoples is important for all the countries of the world. It is not admissible for an aggressive, expansionist State to establish the borders it wants or deprive an entire nation of its legitimate rights by means of war."
"20There will be no just and lasting peace in the Middle East, nor can the international community accept pseudo- solutions that do not respect the legitimate national rights of the people of Palestine, including the right to establish their own State and the right to self-determination; nor will there be real peace until the territories occupied in 1967 are returned unconditionally to the Arab States."
"20Cuba pledges its firmest support to the cause of the Arab peoples and especially to the cause of the long-suffering Palestinian people, whose only legitimate representative is the Palestine Liberation Organization, as has been recognized by this Assembly, the movement of non-aligned countries, the League of Arab States, the OAU and especially the Palestinian people itself."
"21Mr. President, before continuing, I should like, on behalf of the Cuban delegation, to congratulate you on your election as President of this session of the General Assembly. Colombia and Cuba are linked by a close fellowship of history and culture. The close relations that have always linked our fraternal peoples have been strengthened since you became Minister for Foreign Affairs of your country, and they are being extended daily to our mutual benefit. We are certain that in the weeks ahead you will skilfully guide the work of this Assembly and we pledge the support of the Cuban representatives in this task."
"21The October Revolution, a social product emerging from the class struggle of contemporary society, marked the start of the genuine crisis of capitalism and opened the wellspring of the struggle of the colonial peoples against imperialism. The world has changed profoundly since then."
"21The international balance of power today is nothing like that which existed in 1920, when the Soviets were alone, surrounded by a hostile world. The balance of power L not even comparable with that in the 1950s or at the beginning of the 1960s. Today, the struggle of the peoples, particularly in the socialist camp, headed by the Soviet Union, has inclined the balance towards the cause of peace, independence and progress. This change in the correlation of forces and this tendency that favours peace are evident within the United Nations itself in the community of interests between the socialist countries and the underdeveloped countries, which has made possible a fruitful period of major definition -and decision, particularly in the struggle against colonialism, neo-colonialism, racism and apartheid and for the establishment of a new international economic order."
"21As a product of that world correlation and an immediate result of the long internal struggles and difficult battles for national liberation, new independent States have emerged, founded on principles of fraternal and disinterested support. But where are those peoples who have experienced the long darkness of colonial exploitation- without hospitals or doctors, without schools or teachers, without industrial development-and who are prisoners of the dependent relationships they have inherited to find that support?"
"21Only a social revolution that eliminates the internal structures blocking the productive forces, combined with unconditional outside support based on principles of justice and internationalist solidarity, can help those peoples to move towards a new, full life. Imperialism is not the natural ally of the peoples in their aim to achieve independent development. Its so-called assistance, generally in the form of loans, is one of the mechanisms it has created to pull its own economy out of a state of permanent structural crisis."
"21Colonial and neo-colonial relations are the source of under-development, poverty and ignorance."
"21Cuba urges that colonialism be ended once and for all through the exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination and independence."
"21We therefore energetically support the independence of the Saharan people and the people of Belize. The territorial integrity of the latter people is being threatened by the pro-imperialist regime in Guatemala, with the support of the transnational corporations."
"21During the last two years the United States Government has pressured and threatened the Member States of this international Organization, demanding that the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples suspend its debate and any decision affecting the colonial case of Puerto Rico. Nevertheless, on 12 September, following two weeks of intensive work, that Committee approved a resolution calling upon the United States to transfer all power to the people of that territory so that they might exercise full sovereignty in freely determining their own future [see A/33/23/Rev.l, chap. I, para. 73]. The United States Government was completely isolated. Representatives of all the political forces in Puerto Rico attended the meetings of the Special Committee and not one of them failed to recognize the colonial status of that territory."
"21Cuba will continue to uphold the pertinent decisions of the Conference of the non-aligned countries  and the mandate that stems from our history of struggle shared with the Puerto Rican people to support their inalienable right to self-determination and independence."
"22The imperialist Powers and the reactionary Governments of other countries are creating new pacts which threaten the security of peaceful States that are engaged in the immense task of building happiness for their peoples."
"22We refer first of all to the heroic people of Viet Nam, whose defeat of imperialist aggression in Indo-China was a decisive contribution to the struggle against colonialism and neo-colonialism. When the war was over the Vietnamese people dedicated themselves to carrying out President Ho Chi Minh's expressed will that a Viet Nam 10 times more beautiful should be built on the ruins left by the war, in which indiscriminate and criminally massive use had been made of all kinds of weapons except nuclear arms.. At the same time, the Vietnamese Government proceeded rapidly to the normalization of relations with all its neighbours, in an effort to bring peace, neutrality and progress to South-East Asia."
"22However, the Chinese Government leadership, wishing to please its Western allies and leaving no doubts about its anti-progressive and anti-socialist militancy and its dreams of hegemony and expansion in Asia, is now threatening heroic Viet Nam. The Peking leadership is acting in flagrant alliance with United States imperialism and with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization [NATO]."
"22In Latin America, the Chinese leadership's best friend is the Fascist junta of Pinochet. In Africa, it takes an active part in the aggression against Angola and expresses its solidarity with the threats levelled against the revolutions of Ethiopia and Yemen. In Asia, it seeks to impose its chauvinistic dictates on Viet Nam and other countries. Finally, it works actively against the extension of international detente, the halting of the arms race and the protection of the world from the threat of war."
"22Cuba believes that the immoral policy of the new Chinese mandarins should be energetically rejected."
"22We believe also that it is just and necessary for this Assembly to support the independence and territorial integrity of Namibia and Zimbabwe and we reiterate here that Cuba supports the legitimate representatives of those people, the Patriotic front and SWAPO and that, as President Fidel Castro stated in his speech at the International Conference of Solidarity with the Struggle of the African and Arab Peoples against Imperialism and Reaction,1 1 Cuba does not oppose any peaceful negotiation that would solve the problems of both cases, so long as such negotiation is just and is accepted by the legitimate representatives of those peoples and by the African States supporting them."
"22Indeed, the very forces that have obliged the fighters of SWAPO and the Patriotic Front to resort to arms provide all kinds of assistance to the regimes of Smith and Vorster and benefit from the exploitation of the black peoples of southern Africa. It is precisely the determination of the patriots of those countries to keep on fighting until victory is won that has forced the racist regimes and their NATO allies to seek peaceful, negotiated solutions."
"22It should be recalled that the United Nations recently published a list of companies that have violated the embargo declared against the racist regimes,  and it is highly significant that more than 500 of the 593 Western companies mentioned in the list are British and American. It is therefore absolutely necessary to remain vigilant concerning any attempt to evade the liberation aims of the fighters of the Patriotic Front and SWAPO by replacing the present white racists with another regime which would perpetuate the criminal exploitation to which those peoples are subjected and block the institution of regimes that"
"represent the majorities, the black peoples of Namibia and Zimbabwe."
"22We believe that the decisions this Assembly adopts should leave Pretoria and Salisbury in no doubt concerning the international community's determination to put an end to racism and colonialism in southern Africa. We support full independence and territorial integrity for Zimbabwe and Namibia. We urge that Pretoria be further isolated and we support the patriots confronting that regime."
"22The recent decision of the South African regime announcing the implementation of its own plan for so-called independence for Namibia proves how strongly South Africa believes it can count on the support of its most important commercial partners and providers of arms and military and nuclear technology. In fact everything seems to indicate that the imperialists regard with veiled pleasure the fact that the authorities of Pretoria are trying to impose a neo-colonial regime upon Namibia."
"23We consider that the moment has come for the Security Council to approve sanctions capable of bringing about the economic, military and political isolation of South Africa and for SWAPO to receive every assistance it requires in order to continue its armed struggle in favour of Namibia's independence, the only alternative left open for the Namibian patriots in view of the attitude of South Africa and the Western Powers."
"23We also condemn the incursions by Rhodesia into the Republic of Mozambique, and we stress Cuba's support for the valiant people of Mozambique, who will not take a backward step, despite these acts of aggression. We believe that this Assembly should call upon all Member States to offer Mozambique and the other front-line States all necessary assistance to meet successfully the actions of the Pretoria and Salisbury regimes."
"23Ws also alert this Assembly to the intentions of the forces of imperialism and reaction in regard to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, a strong bulwark of democracy, freedom and progress in the Arabian -peninsula. We send the Yemeni revolutionaries a warm message of identification and solidarity."
"23We support the right to self-determination of the people of East Timor and Argentina's legitimate aspiration to recover the Malvinas Islands."
"23We demand the complete, unconditional withdrawal of ail foreign troops remaining in Cyprus in flagrant violation of the sovereign rights of that country and we call for complete respect for its independence and territorial integrity."
"23We call for the withdrawal of all foreign troops and materiel from South Korea and for the dissolution of the United Nations Command. We support the just demands of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea aimed at attaining those objectives.."
"23We salute the successes achieved by the people of Panama in their long, courageous and heroic struggle to obtain full sovereignty over all their territory."
"23We reiterate our demand that foreign air, naval and military bases in Guam, the Philippines, the Indian Ocean, Malta, Cyprus, Panama, Puerto Rico and Guantanamo - to mention but a few-be dismantled. This would make a substantial contribution to the strengthening of international peace and security."
"23We support the heroic struggle being waged by the people of Chile for their freedom and against the policy of unemployment, poverty, repression and surrender of the country's resources to the transnational companies that helped the Fascist junta seize power. We are confident that the Chilean people will emerge victorious over fascism."
"23Much speculation has been voiced over the status of and prospects for our relations with the United States. Cuba can negotiate these relations, but never on the basis of abandoning any of our principles. The prerequisite for any negotiation must be that the United States lift its unjust and unilateral blockade of Cuba and end all its hostile acts  and attacks. We cannot have discussions on the basis of force and blackmail; it is not possible to conduct a dialogue with a dagger in the chest. We cannot say when such a discussion will be possible, but it is certain that the Cuban people's right to determine their own future in freedom and sovereignty, to take a specific position in international conflicts and to act in solidarity with the peoples struggling for freedom and independence can never be questioned; that our people will win their right to exercise sovereignty over all our territory; and that the Yankee troops that now illegally"
"24Part of the booty the United States obtained when it intervened in Cuba's war for independence from colonial domination was the territory that it usurped and that is occupied to this day by the naval base in Guantanamo. The military Government of occupation imposed upon the Cubans the concession of that part of our fatherland, in spite of the strong opposition of our people."
"24Over 70 years have elapsed and the United States military presence still continues in the naval base of Guantanamo, a truly colonial enclave in our land. The Government and the people of Cuba strongly voice their demand for the restitution of the territory occupied by that base."
"24This Assembly is meeting after an interval of a year in which the most aggressive forces of imperialism, supported by reactionaries of all types, have tried to prevent the strengthening of detente and push the world back to the days of the cold war, stepping up the arms race and blocking the progress to and consolidation of national independence by the peoples of Asia, Africa and Latin America and their struggle for economic and social development based on just and equal international relations."
"24In the months since the thirty-second session a series of international conferences have also taken place, including three special sessions of the General Assembly, the seventh session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, the World Conference to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, the United Nations Conference on Technical Co-operation among Developing"
"Countries and the Conference of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Non-Aligned Countries."
"24In analysing the international situation we cannot fail to refer to the critical situation at the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea after haying held seven sessions. Its success or failure will determine whether a regime of law that will benefit world peace will prevail or whether there will be anarchy, with its unforeseeable consequences. This topic is, therefore, of vital interest to the developing countries; which, with the establishment of anew law of the sea, would make the first real gain in their just struggle for a new international economic order."
"24Only through an international regime will the community of nations be able to prevent the unrestricted exploitation of those resources by the imperialist consortiums seriously harming the inland producers of minerals similar to those found in the sea-bed and guarantee that the benefits obtained from their exploitation will provide resources for the countries that are relatively less developed."
"24Cuba wishes explicitly to state its firm support for the energetic protest formulated by the Group of 77 in the session of the Conference on the Law of the Sea that was concluded recently, expressing opposition to the bills being considered by the United States and other countries that will pave the way for the large consortia to exploit those resources unilaterally. At the same time it emphasizes the responsibility that weighs on all countries-especially the large capitalist Powersto help to overcome the present deadlock in the Conference."
"24If we can draw any conclusion from what has happened in the last few months, it is first of all that there is duplicity in the foreign policy of the imperialists, who use their diplomatic activities to hide attempts to maintain their neo-colonial rule where it still persists, supporting racist and expansionist reactionary regimes such as those of South Africa and Israel, and to maintain intact the system of international economic relations that favours the exploitation by their consortia of the riches of the so-called third-world countries."
"24Suffice it to recall what happened while the tenth special session of the General Assembly, which was devoted to disarmament, was being held. While in this building the vast majority of the representatives of Member States sincerely and insistently tried to find solutions that would slow down the arms race and use the money thus saved to benefit all humanity, strengthening the international peace and security that all people seek, at the same time the NATO Heads of State met in Washington to adopt the most costly programme of military expenditure ever approved by that aggressive military pact. Where is the imperialists' real policy shown-in the New York disarmament negotiations or in the boost given the arms race in NATO?"
"24Moreover, it is important to emphasize that the relative success of the special session, which created conditions favourable for continuing efforts to achieve general and complete disarmament, the goal of all progressive forces, was a victory for the non-aligned countries which requested the special session, for the countries of the socialist community, which gave it their support and for all the other States which worked with dedication in the special session."
"25Allow me to reiterate that Cuba strongly urges the attainment of that goal and that we support the prompt calling of a world disarmament conference and the conclusion of the negotiations to reach partial agreements on such matters as the elimination of chemical weapons, the prohibition of all nuclear weapon testing and a ban on the use of force in international relations. In that regard we salute the proposals presented by the Soviet Union and other socialist countries."
"25Also while: the special session was being held many extremely aggressive, slanderous statements were made against Cuba for its fulfilment of its international obligations to help the peoples of Angola and Ethiopia. A whole campaign of lies was 6rchestrated to try to accuse Cuba of having participated in the events which took place in the Shaba Province in Zaire, but the truth prevailed and it was further proved that it had all been a means to justify intervention by NATO forces."
"25On 14 September, President Fidel Castro said:"
"\"The imperialists and their reactionary servants oppose Cuba's presence in Africa...."
"\"We could answer them with the words of several African Heads of State, who have said that there are no Cubans in Africa who have not been asked to come by an independent State exercising its sovereignty to defend a just cause.\""
"25Following the defeat of the attack made on the people of Angola by the racist regime of South Africa everything possible has been done to prevent the peoples of Africa and the Middle East from consolidating their independence, to hold back all demonstrations of solidarity with them and to try to divide them. Forces of intervention have even been sent, in an attempt to recolonize Africa, and all possibilities for military confrontation between the countries in the area have been enhanced."
"25The enemies of the people seek to destroy the organizations established to strengthen their solidarity; an example is provided by the efforts made recently on the international level to divide, weaken and destroy the movement of non-aligned countries. We can state, however, that those efforts have failed; the members of the movement are now more united and their presence in the struggle is more active because they have reached basic solutions that respond to the true interests of the people in every one of the main conflicts on the international scene today."
"25Clearly the imperialist forces have been unable to obtain a favourable balance. The revolutions of Angola and Ethiopia have been consolidated, the front-line countries maintain their unswerving support for the national liberation movements that are fighting against racism, and no force can deter the moral and material solidarity and aid given those peoples. The failure of all the manoeuvres to sabotage the last OAU Assembly of Heads of State and"
"Government and the Conference of the foreign ministers of non-aligned countries is evidence of a deep awareness that international solidarity is particularly significant in the current struggles of the African and Arab peoples."
"25Four years ago at its sixth special session the General Assembly adopted a Declaration on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order [resolution 3201 (S-VI)], initiating a phase of intense negotiations in the economic field in which the developing countries felt confident that their minimum demands for obtaining access to economic development would be met. Without fear of being called pessimistic we can say that the results obtained since that Declaration was adopted have been frustrating. The situation of the non-oil-producing developing countries has become steadily worse. Foreign debts have risen, balance-of-payments problems have increased and purchasing. power and access to Western industrialized markets have declined."
"25The developing countries have not obtained a single concession on any of the basic demands made to the developed countries that control economic relations in the developing world. Instead of a reduction in customs and trade barriers to provide entry to capitalist markets, there has been an increase. The current blockade of my country is perhaps a typical example of the kind of commercial discrimination that is employed; the prices of manufactured goods, of machinery and of agricultural and industrial products which the developing world imports in order to turn out finished goods, continue to rise and the prejudicial relationship between those prices and what the developing world is paid for the exploitation of its natural resources remains unaltered. The crisis of the monetary system especially the crisis facing the United States dollar which is its basehas caused even greater damage to the economy of the under-developed world."
"25Unfortunately, it seems that no serious effort is being made to change this situation. The recent failure of the committee of the whole created by the General Assembly by its resolution 32/174 demonstrates that it takes just one country blindly set on maintaining its privileges to block the mechanism established by the vote of the overwhelming majority of Member States of the United Nations."
"25We believe that it is necessary to continue demanding discussion, debate and negotiation within the United Nations and that any attempt to find solutions outside this universal body will only constitute delaying tactics like those employed in Paris in the so-called North-South dialogue. We also believe that the developing world should continue to do everything possible to extend the ties of economic co-operation among the under-developed countries and between them and the industrialized countries that do not exploit the existing unjust and unequal international economic relations. Mechanisms such as the Latin American Economic System must continue to be supported as a step towards increasingly closer co-operation among our peoples."
"26International bodies must facilitate this process of co-operation and act with initiative and boldness in doing so Cuba hopes, and will do everything possible to see to it, that progress is made during this session towards providing the committee of the whole, as a negotiating body, with the status and the authority to satisfy the just demands presented by the developing countries."
"26My comrades and I come from a small island that is no more than a dot on the world map. Ours is not a rich country; it does not have any great energy resources. Before the revolution that triumphed in January 1959, it was known only for its rum, cigars and music. Today it is much more than that, because a country's worth is measured not in square kilometres and millions of inhabitants but rather by the morale of its people and these struggles."
"26It is on that small island, placed like a key at the entrance to the Gulf of Mexico, that the Heads of State and Government of the members of the movement of non- aligned countries will meet next September. Cuba is making enthusiastic and careful preparations to welcome the representatives of the 86 States Members of the movement of non-aligned countries and to provide for all their needs at the sixth Conference."
"26The upcoming summit Conference of non-aligned countries, the first to be held in Latin America, will help to strengthen the principles on which the movement was founded, and its aspirations to affirm the independence and sovereignty of the peoples and their right to independent development."
"26Our President, Comrade Fidel Castro, said on the twenty-fifth anniversary of the attack on the Moncada Barracks:"
"\"The world revolutionary movement has made tremendous progress in the present century. Its forces grow; its ranks increase; its experience is enriched. The betrayal by, and the insanity, weakness and blindness of, those whose vanity, arrogance, stupidity, petit bourgeois attitudes, chauvinism and opportunism kept them from following the luminous path of the Revolution will never hold back mankind's victorious march."
"\"Mankind will not return to the past; peace will be preserved; the people will march forward in progress, and nothing and no one can stop them.\""
"I have not come to speak about Cuba, I have not come to denounce in this Assembly the attacks to which our small but worthy country has been subjected for 20 years. Nor have I come to wound with unnecessary adjectives the powerful neighbour in his own house."
"We have been charged by the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries to present to the United Nations the results of its deliberations' and the positions to be derived therefrom."
"We are 95 countries from all the continents, representing the overwhelming majority of mankind. We are linked by our determination to defend the co-operation among our countries, to ensure free national and social development, sovereignty, security, equality and self- determination. We are associated in our determination to change the present system of international relations, based as it is on injustice, inequality and oppression. In international politics, we act as an independent world factor. Meeting in Havana, the non-aligned movement has just reaffirmed its principles and confirmed its objectives."
"The non-aligned countries stress the fact that it is imperative to do away with the enormous inequality that separates the developed from the developing countries. We are struggling to eradicate the poverty, hunger, disease and illiteracy from which hundreds of millions of human beings still suffer. We aspire to a new world order, one based on justice, equity and peace, one that will replace the unjust and unequal system that prevails today in which, as proclaimed in Havana:"
"\"... wealth is still concentrated in the hands of a few powers whose wasteful economies are maintained by the exploitation of the labour as well as the transfer and plunder of the natural and other resources of the peoples of Africa, Asia, Latin America and other regions of the world.\""
"Among the problems to be debated at the present session of the General Assembly, peace is the first concern. The search for peace also constitutes an aspiration of the movement of non-aligned countries and has been the subject of the attention of the Sixth Conference. But for our countries, peace is indivisible. We want a peace that will equally benefit the large and the small, the strong and the weak, a peace that will embrace all regions of the world and reach all its citizens."
"Since its very inception, the movement of non- aligned countries has considered that the principles of peaceful coexistence should be the corner-stone of international relations, should constitute the basis for the strengthening of international peace and security, for the relaxation of tensions and for the expansion of that process to all regions of the world and to all aspects of international relations, and should be universally applied in relations among States. But at the same time, the Sixth Conference considered that these principles of peaceful coexistence also include the rights of peoples under alien and colonial domination to self- determination, independence, sovereignty; respect for the territorial integrity of States; and the right of every country to put an end to foreign occupation and to the acquisition of territory by force, and to select its own social, political and economic system. Only thus can peaceful coexistence be the foundation for all international relations."
"This cannot be denied. When we analyse the structure of the world of today, we see that these rights of our peoples are as yet not guaranteed. The non- aligned countries know full well who are our historical enemies. We know whence come the threats and how to combat them. That was why we resolved in Havana to reaffirm that:"
". .the quintessence of the policy of non- alignment, in accordance with its original principles and essential character, involved the struggle against imperialism, colonialism and neo-colonialism, apartheid and racism, including Zionism, and all forms of foreign aggression, occupation, domination, interference or hegemony, as well as against great- Power and bloc policies.\""
"Thus, it will be understood that the Final Declaration of Havana linked the struggle for peace with \"political, moral and material support for the national liberation movements and joint efforts to eliminate colonial domination and racial discrimination\""
"The non-aligned countries have always attached great importance to the possibility of and the need for detente among the great Powers, and thus the Sixth Conference pointed with great concern to the fact that in the period that elapsed after the Fifth Conference held in Colombo in 1976, a certain stagnation took place in the process of detente, which has continued to be limited both in scope and geographically."
"1On the basis of that concern, the non-aligned countrieswhich have made of disarmament and de-nuclearization one of the permanent and most prominent objectives of their struggle and which took the initiative to convene the tenth special session of the General Assembly on disarmamentexamined the results of the negotiations on strategic arms and the agreements reached as a result of the second round of Strategic Arms Limitation Talks [SALT]. They consider that those agreements constitute an important step in the negotiations between the two main nuclear Powers and could open up prospects for more comprehensive negotiations leading to general disarmament and the relaxation of international tensions. But those treaties, as far as the non-aligned countries are concerned, are only part of the progress towards peace. Although negotiations between the great Powers constitute a decisive element in the process, the non- aligned countries once again reiterated that the endeavour to consolidate detente and to extend it to all parts of the world, and to avert the nuclear threat, the arms build-up andin one wordwar, was a task in which all the peoples of the world should participate"
"1Basing ourselves on the concept of the universality of peace and on the need to associate the search for peace, extended to all countries, with the struggle for national independence, with full sovereignty and with equality among States, we, the Heads of State or Government who met at the Sixth Conference of non- aligned countries in Havana, turned our attention to the most pressing problems in Africa, Asia, Latin America and other regions of the world. It is important to stress that we started from an independent position that was not linked or tied to policies that might stem from the contradictions between the great Powers. If in spite of that approach, which was uncommitted and objective, our review of international events became an anathema hurled against the supporters of imperialism and colonialism, it merely reflects the essential reality of the world of today."
"1Thus, on starting the analysis of the situation in Africa and after having recognized the progress made in the African peoples' struggle for their emancipation, the Heads of State or Government stressed, as a fundamental problem of the region, the urgency of eliminating from the continentand especially from southern Africaall traces of colonialism, racism, racial discrimination and apartheid."
"1It was indispensable that we should stress the fact that the colonialist and imperialist Powers were continuing their aggressive policies with the aim of perpetuating, regaining or extending their domination and exploitation of the African nations."
"1And that is precisely the dramatic situation in Africa. The non-aligned countries could not fail to condemn the attacks on Mozambique, on Zambia, on Angola, on Botswana; the threats against Lesotho; the destabilization efforts that are constantly being made in that area; and the role of the racist regimes of Rhodesia and South Africa. The pressing need for Zimbabwe and Namibia to be completely liberated as soon as possible is not just one of the causes of the non-aligned countries or of the most progressive forces of our era; it is laid down in resolutions and agreements adopted by the international community through the United Nations. It implies duties that cannot be shirked and the violation of which must call for international denunciation."
"1Therefore, when the Heads of State or Government approved the Final Declaration, which condemned by name a group of Western countries headed by the United Statesfor their direct or indirect collaboration in the maintenance of South Africa's criminal policy and racist oppression and, on the other hand, recognized the role played by the non-aligned countries, the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity [OAU], the socialist countries and the Scandinavian countries and other democratic and progressive forces in supporting the struggle of the peoples of Africa, it did not involve even the slightest manifestation of ideological leanings; it was simply a true expression of the objective reality. To condemn South Africa without mentioning those who make its criminal policy possible would have been incomprehensible."
"1More forcibly and urgently than ever, the Sixth Conference expressed the need not only to end the situation in which the right of the peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia to independence is denied, but also to support the urgent requirement for the black men and women of South Africa to attain a status in which they are to be considered as equal, respected human beings and to guarantee conditions of respect and peace for all the countries of the region."
"1Continued support for the national liberation movements, the Patriotic Front and the South West Africa People's Organization [SWAPO] was a decision so unanimous that we could almost have foreseen it. And let us state this very clearly now: this is not a case of expressing a unilateral preference for solutions through armed struggle. It is true that the Conference praised the people of Namibia and SWAPO, their sole and authentic representative, for having stepped up the armed struggle and advancing it, and it requested all- out, effective support for that form of combat. But that was due to the fact that the South African racists have slammed the door to any real negotiations, and the efforts to achieve negotiated solutions go no further than mere strategems and manoeuvres."
"1The attitude towards the decisions taken at the Meeting of Heads of Government of Commonwealth Countries at Lusaka last August to have the United Kingdom Government, as the administering Power for Southern Rhodesia, call a conference to discuss the problems of Zimbabwe, confirmed the fact that the non-aligned countries are not opposed to solutions that may be achieved without armed struggle, so long as they lead to the establishment of a real government representing the majority and the achievement of an independence that is satisfactory to the fighting peoplesand that this be done in accordance with the resolutions of such bodies as the OAU, the United Nations and our own movement of non-aligned countries."
"1The Sixth Conference once again had to express its regret that General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), concerning the granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples, has not been applied in Western Sahara. We should recall that the decisions of the non- aligned countries and the resolutions of the United Nationsmore specifically General Assembly resolution 33/31have all reaffirmed the inalienable right of the people of Western Sahara to self-determination and independence. Cuba feels a special responsibility with regard to this problem since it was a member of the United Nations Visiting Mission to Western Sahara, sent in 1975 to investigate the situation in the Territory, which enabled our representatives to verify the total desire of the Saharan people for self-determination and independence. We repeat here that the position of the non-aligned movement is not one of antagonism towards any country. Nothing but the application of our principles and the agreements of the United Nations should be seen in our welcoming the conclusion of the agreement between the Islamic Republic of Mauritania and the Frente POLISARIO and the decision of the Republic of Mauritania to"
"2That same principle and that same position determined the resolutions on Mayotte and the Malagasy islands and the need for them to be reintegrated in the Comoros and Madagascar, respectively."
"2There can be no doubt that the problem of the Middle East has become one of the situations that give rise to the greatest concern and worry in the world today. The Sixth Conference examined it in its twofold dimension. On the one hand, the Conference reaffirmed that Israel's determination to continue its policy of aggression, expansionism and colonial settlement in the occupied territories, with the support of the United States, constitutes a serious threat to world peace and security. The Conference also examined the problem from the point of view of the rights of the Arab peoples and the Palestinian question."
"2For the non-aligned countries, the Palestinian question is the very crux of the problem of the Middle East. Both questions form an integral whole and neither can be settled separately."
"2The basis for a just peace in the region starts with the total and unconditional withdrawal by Israel from all the occupied Arab territories and provides for the return to the Palestinian people of all their occupied territories and the restoration of their inalienable national rights, including their right to return to their homeland, to self-determination and to the establishment of an independent State in Palestine, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 3236 (XXIX). This implies that all measures taken by Israel in the occupied Palestinian and other Arab territories, such as the establishment of colonies or settlements in Palestinian and other Arab territorieswhose immediate dismantlement is a prerequisite for the solution of the problemare all illegal, null and void."
"2As I stated in my inaugural address to the Sixth Conference. We are not fanatics. The revolutionary movement has always learned to hate racial discrimination and pogroms of any kind. From the bottom of our heart, we repudiated the merciless persecution and genocide that the Nazis once visited on the Jews, but there's nothing in recent history that parallels it more closely than the dispossession, persecution and genocide that imperialism and Zionism are currently practising against the Palestinian people. Pushed off their land, expelled from their own country, scattered throughout the world, persecuted and murdered, the heroic Palestinians are a vivid example of sacrifice and patriotism, living symbols of the most terrible crime of our era.\""
"2Can anyone be surprised that the Conference, for reasons that stemmed not from any political prejudice, but rather from an objective analysis of the facts, felt called upon to note that the United States policy, in aligning itself with Israel and in supporting it and working to obtain partial solutions that are favourable to Zionist aims and to guarantee the fruits of Israeli aggression at the expense of the Palestinian Arab people and the entire Arab nation, played a major role in preventing the establishment of a just and comprehensive peace in the region?"
"2The facts, and only the facts, led the Conference to condemn the policy and manoeuvres of the United States in that region."
"2When the Heads of State or Government arrived at the consensus which condemned the Camp David agreements and the Egyptian-Israeli Treaty of March 1979, their formulations had been preceded by long hours of detailed study and fruitful exchanges which allowed the Conference to consider those treaties not only as a complete abandonment of the cause of the Arab countries, but also as an act of complicity with the continuing occupation of Arab territories. The terms are hard, but they are true and just. It is not the Egyptian people who have been subjected to the judgement of the organs of the movement of non-aligned nations. The Egyptian people command the respect of each and every one of our countries, and enjoy the solidarity of all our peoples. The same voices that were raised to denounce the Camp David agreements and the Egyptian-Israeli Treaty eulogized and praised Gamal Abdel Nasser, a founder of the movement and one of those who upheld the fighting traditions of the Arab nation. No one ignores and no one will ever be unaware of Egypt's historic role in Arab culture and development or its merit as a founding nation and a driving force in the movement of non-aligned countries."
"2The Conference also gave its attention to the problems of South-East Asia. The growing conflicts and tensions that have been created in the region are a threat to peace that must be avoided."
"2Similar concern was expressed by the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or Government regarding the situation in the Indian Ocean. The Declaration adopted eight years ago by the General Assembly proclaiming the Indian Ocean a zone of peace has not been fulfilled. The military presence in the region has not been reduced; it is growing. Military bases have reached as far as South Africa and are also serving as a means for surveillance of the African liberation movements. The talks between the United States and the Soviet Union are still suspended despite the recent agreements between the two countries to discuss their resumption. All this led to the Sixth Conference's invitation to all States concerned to work effectively to fulfil the objectives of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace."
"3The Sixth Conference also analysed other issues of regional and world interest such as those touching on European security and co-operation, the problem of the Mediterranean and the tensions that still exist there and that now have been increased as a result of Israel's aggressive policy and the support given it by certain imperialist Powers. The Conference also studied the situation in Cyprus, an island still partially occupied by foreign troops, and Korea, which is still divided despite the Korean people's desire for the peaceful reunification of their homeland. This led the non-aligned countries to reaffirm and broaden resolutions of solidarity aimed at fulfilling the aspirations of both peoples."
"3It would be impossible to refer to all the political decisions of the Sixth Conference. If we were to do so, we would be unable to touch upon what we consider to be one of the most fundamental aspects of that Conference, namely, its economic projection, the clamour of the developing countries, who have had enough of backwardness and of the suffering it engenders. Cuba, as the host country, will present to all members of the international community copies of the Conference's Final Declaration and additional resolutions. But, before informing this Assembly of how the non-aligned countries view the world economic situation, which demands they make and which hopes they nurture, perhaps I will be allowed to take a few minutes more to inform you of what the Final Declaration's approach was concerning Latin American issues of the moment."
"3The fact that the Sixth Conference was held in a Latin American country allowed the Heads of State or Government meeting there to recall that the peoples of that region started their efforts to obtain independence at the very beginning of the nineteenth century. They also did not forget, as it is said in the Declaration, that \"Latin America is one of the regions of the world that historically has greatly suffered from the aggression of United States and European imperialism, colonialism and neo-colonialism\""
"3The participants in the Conference were forced to point out that in that area of struggle, remnants of colonialism, neo-colonialism and national oppression still remain; thus the Conference spoke out in favour of the eradication of colonialism in all its forms and manifestations; it condemned the presence of foreign military bases in Latin America and the Caribbean, such as those in Cuba and Puerto Rico, and again demanded that the Government of the United States and the other colonial Powers restore to those countries that part of their territories occupied by those bases against the will of the peoples concerned."
"3The experience lived through in other areas led the Heads of State or Government to reject and condemn any attempt to create a so-called' 'security force\" in the Caribbean, a neo-colonial mechanism incompatible with the sovereignty, peace and security of the countries there."
"3In seeking the restoration of the Malvinas Islands to the Argentine Republic and in reaffirming its support for the inalienable rights of the people of Belize to self-determination, independence and territorial integrity, the Conference once again corroborated what its Declaration had defined as the very \"quintessence of the policy of non-alignment\". It welcomed the fact that as of 1 October the Panama Canal Treaties between the Republic of Panama and the United States would come into force; it gave its full support to those Treaties and it called for their full observance in letter and spirit; furthermore it called on all the States of the world to accede to the Protocol of the Treaty Concerning the Permanent Neutrality of the Panama Canal."
"3Despite all the pressures, threats and flattery that were brought to bear, and despite the obstinacy of the United States Government in demanding that the issue of Puerto Rico be considered an internal problem of the United States, the Heads of State or Government reiterated their solidarity with the struggle of the Puerto Rican people and their inalienable right to self- determination, independence and territorial integrity, and called upon the Government of the United States of America to refrain from any political or repressive manoeuvres tending to perpetuate the colonial status of that country."
"3No more appropriate tribute than this could be paid to the Latin American traditions of freedom and to the heroic people of Puerto Rico who in these last few days have just celebrated another anniversary of the \"Cry of Lares\", which expressed their indomitable will for freedom over a century ago."
"3When referring to the Latin American reality, the Heads of State or Government, who had already analysed the significance of the liberating process in Iran, could not fail to refer to the revolutionary upheaval in Grenada and the remarkable victory of the people of Nicaragua and their vanguard, the Sandinist National Liberation Front, and emphasize the enormous historic significance of that event for the peoples of Latin America and of the world. The Heads of State or Government also stressed something new in Latin American relations, something that sets an example to other regions of the world, namely the way in which the Governments of Panama, Costa Rica and Mexico, as well as the member countries of the sub regional Andean Pact, Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela, acted in unison and solidarity to achieve a just solution to the Nicaraguan problem, as well as Cuba's traditional solidarity with the cause of that people."
"3I confess that these considerations on Latin America would alone have justified the Cuban people's efforts and the concern of the hundreds of thousands of men and women of our country who were determined to enable Cuba worthily to welcome the fraternal nations of the movement of non-aligned countries at the Havana Conference, but for Cuba there was much more than thisthere was something which, on behalf of our people, we would like to thank this Assembly for in this forum of the United Nations. In Havana the Cuban people's right to choose their political and social system was supported, as was their claim to the territory occupied by the naval base of Guantanamo, and furthermore the unjust blockade, with which the United States Government continues its efforts to isolate the Cuban revolution, seeking to destroy it, was condemned."
"4We deeply appreciate the universal acclaim given to the non-aligned movement's recent denunciation in Havana of the hostile acts, pressure and threats against Cuba by the United States, declaring them to be a flagrant violation of the Charter of the United Nations and of the principles of international law. They are also a threat to world peace. Once again we reply to our brothers, assuring the international community that Cuba will remain true to the principles of international solidarity."
"4History teaches us that when a people, freeing itself from a colonial or neo-colonial system, obtains its independence, that is at one and the same time the last act in a lengthy struggle and the first one in a new and arduous battle, for the independence, sovereignty and freedom of our peoples, who are apparently free, are constantly threatened by foreign control over our natural resources, financial impositions by official international bodies and by the precarious situation of our economies, all of which reduce the fullness of our sovereignty."
"4For this reason, at the very beginning of their analysis of the world economic problems, the Heads of State or Government:"
"\"...once again solemnly emphasized the paramount importance of consolidating political independence by economic emancipation. They therefore reiterated that the existing international economic system runs against the basic interests of the developing countries, is profoundly unjust and incompatible with the development of the non-aligned and other developing countries, nor does it contribute to the elimination of the economic and social evils that afflict these countries...\"."
"Furthermore they went on to emphasize:"
"\"...the historic mission that the Movement of Non- Aligned Countries should play in the struggle to attain the economic and political independence of all developing countries and peoples, to exercise their full and permanent sovereignty and control over their natural and all other resources and economic activities, and to promote a fundamental restructuring of the world economy through the establishment of the New International Economic Order\""
"in order to conclude that:"
"\"...the struggle to eliminate the injustice of the existing international economic system and to establish the New International Economic Order is an integral part of the people's struggle for political, economic, cultural and social liberation.\""
"4I do not have to show or prove here how profoundly unjust and incompatible with the development of the under-developed countries the existing international economic system is, The figures are already so well known that it is unnecessary for us to repeat them here. There are discussions on whether there are only 400 million undernourished people in the world or whether the figure has once again risen to 450 million, as certain, international documents state; but 400 million hungry men and women already constitute too heavy an accusation."
"4What nobody doubts is that all the hopes that have been raised in the developing countries appear to have been dashed and extinguished at this close of the Second United Nations Development Decade."
"4The Director-General of FAO has acknowledged that:"
"\". ..progress is still disappointingly slow in relation to the long-term development goals contained in the International Development Strategy, in the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the establishment of the New International Economic Order and in the resolution of the World Food Conference and in several subsequent conferences.\""
"4We are still far from having achieved the modest 4 per cent per annum average increase in the developing countries' food and agricultural production which was proposed 10 years ago in order to solve some of the most pressing problems of world hunger and approach consumption levels that are still low. As a result of this, the developing countries' food imports, which right now constitute a factor aggravating their unfavourable balance of payments, will soonaccording to FAO figuresreach unmanageable proportions. In the face of this, official commitments of foreign aid to agriculture in the developing countries are falling off."
"4This panorama cannot be prettied up. Certain official documents sometimes reflect circumstantial increases in the agricultural production of some areas of the under-developed world or stress the cyclical price increases registered by some agricultural items, but these are cases of transitory advances and of short-lived advantages. The developing countries' agricultural export revenues are still unstable and insufficient to meet their import needs in food, fertilizers and other items required to raise their own production. The per capita food production in Africa in 1977 was 11 per cent below that of 10 years earlier."
"4If backwardness in agriculture is perpetuated, the process of industrialization has also not advanced. And it cannot advance because, as far as most developing countries are concerned, industrialization is considered a threat by the developed countries."
"4In 1975 the Second General Conference of UN-"
"IDO proposed to the developing countries that we be responsible for 25 per cent of the world's manufacturing output by the year 2000,3 but the progress made since that time has been so insignificant that, if the measures proposed by the Sixth Conference are not implemented and if a crash programme is not put into effect to modify the economic policies of most of the developed countries, that target will be another failure and we shall never meet it. We now account for less than 9 per cent of the world's manufacturing output."
"5Our dependency is once again expressed in the fact that the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America import 26.1 per cent of the manufactured goods that enter into the world trade current and export only 6.3 per cent."
"5It may be said that there is some industrial expansion, but it does not take place at the required rate or in the key industries of industrial economy. This was pointed out at the Havana Conference. The world redistribution of industry, the so-called industrial redeployment, should not consist of a new confirmation of the deep economic inequalities that emerged in the colonial era of the nineteenth century. At that time, we were sentenced and condemned to be producers of raw materials and cheap agricultural products. Now, an effort is being made to use our countries' abundant labour and starvation wages to transfer the less technologically developed and less productively viable industries to us: We categorically reject this."
"5Developed market-economy countries today absorb more than 85 per cent of the world's manufactured goods, including those whose industrial production requires the highest technology. They also control more than 83 per cent of all industrial exports. Twenty-six per cent of those exports go to the developing countries, whose markets they monopolize. The most serious aspect of this dependent structure is that our imports that is, consumer items as well as capital goodsare all manufactured according to the demands, requirements and technology of the most developed industrial countries and the patterns of consumer societies, which are thus introduced through the chinks of our trade, contaminating our own societies and thus adding a new element to the already permanent structural crisis."
"5The result of all thisas was noted by the Heads of State or Government in Havanais that the gap between the developed and the developing countries not only persists but has also substantially increased. The latter's relative share in the world output decreased considerably during the last two decades, a fact which has still more disastrous effects on such problems as malnutrition, illiteracy and poor sanitation and health services."
"5Some would like to solve the tragic problem of mankind by adopting drastic measures to reduce the population. They remember that wars and epidemics helped to reduce populations in other eras; they wish to go even further, they want to blame under-development on the population explosion. However, the population explosion is not the cause but the result of underdevelopment. Development will bring solutions to the problem of poverty and also, through education and culture, will in turn help our countries to attain rational and adequate rates of growth."
"5A recent report put out by the World Bank paints an even blacker picture. It says that by the year 2000 some 600 million people on this earth may still be submerged in absolute poverty."
"5The state of agricultural and industrial backwardness from which the developing countries have still not managed to emerge is, as the Sixth Conference pointed out, undoubtedly a result of unjust and unequal international relations, but, as the Havana Final Declaration also pointed out, to this is now added the prolonged world economic crisis as an aggravating factor."
"5I shall not dwell too long on this aspect. Let us state, however, that the Heads of State or Government consider that the crisis of the international economic system is not a cyclical phenomenon but a symptom of the underlying structural maladjustments and basic imbalance and that that imbalance has been aggravated by the refusal of the developed market-economy countries to control their external imbalances, their high inflationary levels and unemployment. The inflation has been engendered in precisely those developed countries that now refuse to implement the only measures that might eliminate it. Let us further point outand this is something to which we will return later and which has also been set down in the Havana Declarationthat this crisis is also a result of the persisting inequality in international economic relationsso that by eliminating that inequality, as we propose to do, we will contribute to reducing and eliminating the crisis itself."
"5What are the main guidelines formulated in Havana by the representatives of the movement of non-aligned countries?"
"5We condemned the persistent channelling of human and material resources into an arms race, which is unproductive, wasteful and dangerous to mankind, and we demanded that a substantial part of the resources now devoted to arms, particularly by the major Powers, be used for economic and social development."
"6We expressed our grave concern over the negligible progress that had been made in the negotiations for the implementation of the Declaration and Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order. We pointed out that this was due to the lack of political will on the part of most of the developed countries, and we specifically censured the dilatory, diversionary and divisive tactics adopted by those countries. The failure of the fifth session of UNCTAD highlighted that very situation."
"6We confirmed that the unequal exchange in inter-national economic relations, defined as an essential characteristic of the system, had become, if possible, even more unequal. Whereas the prices of manufactured goods, capital goods, food-stuffs and the services that we import from developed countries are constantly rising, the prices of the primary products we export are not, but, on the contrary, are being lowered and are subject to constant fluctuations. Trade relations have worsened. We emphasized that protectionism- one of the aggravating factors of the great depression of the 1930shad been reintroduced by some developed countries. The Conference deplored the fact that in the GATT negotiations the developed countries belonging to it did not take into account the interests and concerns of the developing countries, especially the least developed among them."
"6The Conference also denounced the way in which certain developed countries had intensified and increased their domestic production subsidies that redounded against the products of the developing nations."
"6The Conference further deplored the shortcomings in the scope and operation of the generalized system of preferences and, in that spirit, condemned the discriminatory restrictions contained in the United States Foreign Trade Act and the inflexible positions adopted by some developed countries, which prevented the adoption of agreements on this issue at the fifth session of UNCTAD."
"6We expressed our concern over the constant deterioration of the international monetary situation. The instability of the exchange rates of the main reserve currencies, together with inflation and the increase in the imbalance in the world economic situation, creates additional economic difficulties for the developing countries and reduces the real value of their export earnings and also further reduces their foreign currency reserves. As a negative factor, we pointed out the disorderly growth of international liquidity, mainly through the use of devalued United States dollars and other reserve currencies. We noted that, while the inequality of international economic relations had increased the developing countries' accumulated foreign debtto over $300 billionthe international financial bodies and private banks had raised their interest rates and imposed shorter terms of loan amortization, thus financially strangling the developing countries. The Conference denounced all this as constituting an element of coercion in negotiations that allows those financial institutions to obtain additional political and economic advantages at the expense of our countries."
"6The Conference took into account the neo- colonialist efforts to prevent the developing countries from exercising their full, permanent and effective sovereignty over those natural resources and reaffirmed this right. It is for this reason that it supported the efforts of raw material-producing non-aligned and other developing countries in their search for just and remunerative prices for their exports and their efforts to improve in real terms their export earnings."
"6Moreover, the Conference paid more attention than ever to the strengthening of economic relations and to the transfer of scientific and technological information among the developing countries. The concept of what could be defined as \"collective self-reliance\" that is, mutual support and co-operation among the developing countries, so that in the first place they will depend on their own collective forceswas given great importance in the Havana Declaration. As Chairman of the movement and co-ordinating country, Cuba intends, together with the Group of 77, to do everything necessary to promote the programme of action on economic co-operation outlined by the Conference."
"6Nevertheless, we cannot conceive of that \"collective self-reliance' as anything even remotely resembling self-sufficiency. We rather consider it to be a factor in international relations which will mobilize all the means and resources of that considerable and important part of mankind represented by the developing countries and incorporate them in the general current of resources and economies that can be marshalled in both the capitalist camp and the socialist countries."
"6The Sixth Conference rejected the attempts of certain developed countries to use the issue of energy as a means of dividing the developing nations."
"6The problem of energy can be examined only in its historic context, taking into account the fact that the wasteful consumption patterns of some of the developed countries and the role played by transnational oil corporations have led to the squandering of hydrocarbons and noting the plundering role of the transnational corporations, which, until only recently, have benefited from cheap energy supplies which they have used irresponsibly. The transnational corporations exploit both the producers and the consumers and reap enormous and unjustified windfall profits from both, while at the same time falsifying the facts in order to shift the blame for the present situation to the developing countries, exporters of oil."
"7Permit me to recall that my opening address to the Conference contained a definition of the desperate situation of the non-oil-producing under-developed countriesespecially the least developed onesand that at that time I expressed the confidence that the non-aligned oil-producing countries would devise formulas to help to alleviate the unfavourable situation of those countries that have already been hit by world inflation and by unequal trade relations and are suffering serious balance-of-payments deficits and sharp increases in their foreign debt. But that does not obviate the principal responsibility of the developed countries, their monopolies and their transnational corporations."
"7When considering the matter of energy from that standpoint, the Heads of State or Government stressed that the subject should be the main focus of global negotiations within the United Nations, with the participation of all countries, and linking the problem of energy to all other development problemswith financial and monetary reforms, with world trade and raw materialsso as to make a comprehensive and global analysis of those aspects which have a bearing on the establishment of the new international economic order."
"7In revising and reviewing the main problems that confront the developing countries within the context of the world economy, we had to dwell on the activities of the transnational corporations. Once again, their policies and practices were declared unacceptable, it was charged that, in their desire for profits, they exhaust the resources, distort the economies and infringe the sovereignty of developing countries; undermine the rights of people to self-determination; violate the principle of non-interference in the affairs of States; and frequently resort to bribery, corruption and other undesirable practices through which they seek to, and manage to, subordinate the developing countries to the desires and plans of the industrialized countries."
"7In view of the inadequate progress which had been achieved in the work carried out within the United Nations for the drawing up of a code of conduct to regulate the activities of transnational corporations, the Conference reaffirmed the urgency of the early completion of the work on the code, in order to provide the international community with a legal instrument with which at least to control and regulate the activities of the transnational corporations in accordance with the objectives and aspirations of the developing countries."
"7In setting forth all the overwhelming negative aspects in the economic situation of developing countries, the Sixth Conference called the special attention of the world to the mounting problems of the least developed, the most disadvantaged, the land-locked countries, and those isolated in the hinterland, and asked that urgent measures be adopted to mitigate and alleviate their problems."
"7That was the far from optimistic, rather sombre and discouraging picture which the members of the non-aligned movement had in mind when they met in Havana."
"7Nevertheless, the non-aligned countries did not allow themselves to be swept into positions of frustration or exasperation, although that might have been understandable. While drawing up strategic concepts for advancing and continuing in their struggle, the Heads of State or Government repeated their demands and defined their positions."
"7The first and fundamental objective in our struggle consists of reducing and finally eliminating the unequal exchange that prevails today and that makes international trade a very useful, helpful vehicle for the hindering of our wealth. Today, the product of one hour's work in the developed countries is exchanged for the product of 10 hours work in the underdeveloped nations."
"7The non-aligned countries demand that serious attention be paid to the Integrated Programme for Commodities, which thus far has been manipulated and shirked in the so-called North-South dialogue. They likewise ask that the Common Fund, projected and planned as an instrument of stabilization to establish a permanent correspondence between the prices they receive for their products and those they pay for their imports, and which has only just begun to be integrated, be given a true impulse and impetus. As far as the non-aligned countries are concerned, this linkage which permanently ties the prices of their export items with the prices of the basic equipment, industrial products, raw materials and technology that they import from the developed countriesconstitutes an essential pivot for all future economic negotiations."
"7The developing countries demand that the countries that have created inflation and that stimulate it through their policies adopt the necessary measures now to control it and thus put an end to the aggravation of the unequal exchange between our countries,"
"8The developing countries demandand will continue their struggle to achieve thisthat the industrial products of their incipient economies be given access to the markets of the developed countries to put an end to the vicious protectionism which has been reintroduced in the international economy and which threatens to lead us once again into a murderous economic war. They demand that, without deceptive falsehoods, generalized and non-reciprocal tariff preferences be applied, so that the young industries of the developing countries may develop without being crushed in the world market by the superior technological resources of the developed countries."
"8The non-aligned countries consider that the negotiations about to be concluded on the law of the sea should not be usedas certain developed countries seek to use themin order to ratify and endorse the existing imbalance as regards sea resources, but should serve as a vehicle for equitable redress. The Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea has once again brought out and stressed the arrogance and imperialist determination of some countries which, placing their technological possibilities before the spirit of understanding and accommodation requested by the developing nations, threaten to take unilateral action in carrying out deep-sea mining operations."
"8The foreign debts of the developing countries have now reached $335 billion. It is estimated that about $40 billion a year go to servicing those foreign debtsand that is more than 20 per cent of their exports. Moreover, the average per capita income in the developed countries is now 14 times that in the underdeveloped countries. This surely is an untenable situation."
"8The developing countries need the establishment of a new system of financing through which they would receive the necessary financial resources to ensure the continuous and independent development of their economies. These financing methods should be long- range and at low interest. These financial resources should be completely at the disposal of the developing countries, to enable them to establish priority systems in their own economies and in accordance with their own plans for industrial development and to prevent those funds from being absorbed, as they are today, by transnational corporations, which use alleged financial contributions for development to aggravate the distortions of their economies and to reap maximum profits from the exploitation of the developing nations' own resources."
"8The developing countriesand, on their behalf, the non-aligned movementdemand that a substantial portion of the immense resources now being squandered on the arms race be diverted for development, which in turn would contribute to reducing the danger of war and to helping to improve the international situation."
"8Expressing the position of all the developing countries, the non-aligned countries call for the establishment of a new international monetary system which will put an end to the disastrous fluctuations to which the main currencies used in the international economyespecially the United States dollarare subject today. The financial disorder also hits the developing countries and the latter hope that, when the outlines of the new international monetary system are"
"drawn up, theyas the majority of the countries in the international community, representing as they do more than one and a half billion men and womenmay be given a voice in the decision-making process."
"8To sum up: unequal exchange is ruining and impoverishing our peoples and must cease."
"8Inflation, which is being exported to us, is impoverishing our peoples and must cease."
"8Protectionism impoverishes our peoples and must cease."
"8The existing imbalance in the exploitation of sea resources is abusive and must be abolished."
"9The financial resources received by the developing countries are insufficient and must be increased."
"9Arms expenditures are irrational. They must cease and the funds thus released must be used to finance development."
"9The international monetary system prevailing today is bankrupt and should be replaced."
"9The debts of the least developed countries and of those in a disadvantageous position are burdens impossible to bear and to which no solution can be found and they should be cancelled."
"9Indebtedness oppresses the rest of the developing countries economically and should be relieved."
"9The wide economic gap between the developed countries and the countries seeking development, instead of diminishing, is being widened, and should be closed and eliminated."
"9These then are the demands of the underdeveloped countries."
"9Response to these demands, some of which have been systematically presented by the developing countries in international forums through the Group of 77 and the non-aligned movement, would permit a change of course in the international economic situation that would provide the developing countries with the institutional conditions for organizing programmes that would definitely place them on the road to development."
"9But even if all these measures were implemented and the mistakes and evils of the present system of international relations were rectified, the developing countries would still lack one decisive element foreign financing."
"9All the domestic and internal efforts, all the sacrifices that the peoples of the developing countries are making and are willing to make, and all the opportunities for increasing their economic potential that would be achieved by eliminating the inequality between the prices of their exports and those of imports and by improving the conditions in which their foreign trade is carried out, would not be enough. In the light of their true financial situation at present, they need enough resources to be able both to pay their debts and to make the enormous expenditures on a global level required by the jump into development."
"10Here again, the figures are far too well known to require repeating. The Sixth Conference was concerned not only because the debt of the underdeveloped countries was practically unbearable, but also because that debt was growing yearly at a rate that might be termed galloping. The data recently contained in the annual World Bank report that came out while we were holding the Conference in Havana confirmed that the situation was growing worse daily. In 1978 alone, the foreign public debt of 96 of the developing countries rose by $51 billion.  This rate of growth has raised the foreign debt to the astronomical figure already mentioned. We cannot resign ourselves to this sombre prospect."
"10The most renowned economistsboth Western ones and those who subscribe to Marxist concepts- admit that the developing countries' system of international indebtedness functions in a completely irrational manner and that its subsistence could lead to a sudden interruption that might endanger the entire precarious and unstable balance of the world economy."
"10Some try to explain away the surprising economic fact that the international banking centres continue to provide funds to countries that are technically bankrupt by arguing that these are generous contributions to help those countries to meet their economic difficulties, but this is not so. In fact, it is an operation for saving the international capitalist order itself. In October of 1978, the Commission of European Communities admitted, by way of clarification, that: the present balance of the world economy depends to a considerable extent on continuing the flow of private loans to non-oil-producing developing countries...on a scale unprecedented prior to 1974, and any obstacle to that flow will endanger that balance.\""
"10World .financial bankruptcy would be very hard, in the first place, on the under-developed countries and on the workers in the developed capitalist countries. It would also affect even the most stable socialist economies, but it is doubtful that the capitalist system would be able to survive such a catastrophe, and it would be very difficult for the resulting and dreadful economic situation not to engender inevitably a world conflagration. There is already talk of special military forces to occupy the oil fields and the sources of other raw materials."
"10But if it is the duty of everyone to concern himself over this sombre prospect, it is first of all the duty of those who possess the greatest wealth and material abundance."
"10In any case, the prospect of a world without capitalism is not too frightening to us revolutionaries."
"10It has been proposed that, instead of a spirit of confrontation, we employ a sense of world economic interdependency that will enable us to call on the resources of all our economies in order to obtain joint benefits, but the concept of interdependency is only acceptable when you start by admitting the intrinsic and brutal injustice of the present interdependency. The developing countries will not accept the unjust, arbitrary international division of labour that modern colonialism imposed on them with the English industrial revolution and that was widened and deepened by imperialism as \"interdependency\"."
"10If we wish to avoid confrontation and struggle which seems to be the only road open to the developing countries, but is a road that offers long and arduous battles whose proportions are unpredictable today then we must all seek and find formulas of co-operation to solve the great problems that, while affecting our peoples, cannot be solved without also affecting the most developed countries, one way or another."
"10Not so many years ago we stated that the irrational squandering of material goods and the subsequent waste of economic resources by developed capitalist society had already become intolerable. Wherein lies the cause of the dramatic energy crisis that we are faced with right now? Who, if not the non-oil- producing under-developed countries, have to bear the main brunt of it?"
"10This feeling that an end must be put to the consumer societies' waste of resources is very widely held. A recent UNIDO document states: \"The present way of life, especially in the industrialized countries, may have to undergo a radical and painful change.\""
"11Naturally, the developing countries cannot and do not hope that the transformations they seek and the financing they require will come to them as a gift following mere analyses of international economic problems. In this process, which implies contradictions, struggles and negotiations, the non-aligned countries must first of all depend upon their own decisions and their own efforts."
"11That conviction emerges clearly from the Sixth Conference. In the economic section of the Final Declaration, the Heads of State or Government acknowledge the need to carry out in their countries the necessary economic and social structural changes, considering that this is the only way to eliminate the present vulnerability of their economies and to turn the simple statistic growth into true development. The Heads of State and Government recognize that only thus will their people be willing to pay the price required of them in order to become protagonists in the process. As I said on that occasion: \"...if the system is socially just, the possibilities of survival and economic and social development are incomparably greater.\" The history of my own country provides irrefutable proof of this."
"11The emerging crying need to solve the problem of under-development brings us back to the problem I mentioned a little while ago and which I should like to make the last that I submit to this thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly. I refer specifically to international financing."
"11One of the most serious phenomena that accompany the accelerated indebtedness of the developing countries, as we have already said, consists of the fact that the majority of the funds received from outside by the developing nations have to be used to cover the imbalance in their balance of trade, to renew debts and to make interest payments."
"11If we take as an example the non-oil-exporting developing countries, to whose situation I referred at the Havana Conference, we note that in the last six years alone they have run up deficits in their balance of payments of over $200 billion."
"11In view of this, the investments required by the developing countries are enormous, and they need themprimarily, and with practically no exception in those branches of production that yield low profits and therefore do not appeal to private foreign lenders or investors."
"11To increase the production of food-stuffs so as to do away with the malnutrition that afflicts those 450 million persons I mentioned earlier, we must provide many new land and water resources. According to specialized estimates, 76 million more hectares of land in the developing countries would have to be cultivated and over 10 million more hectares of land irrigated in the next 10 years to meet the needs."
"11Irrigation systems for 45 million hectares of land would have to be repaired. Therefore, even the most modest estimates admitand I refer to aid and not to the total flow of resourcesthat international financial aid will yearly have to reach between 8 and 9 billion dollars in order to obtain an agricultural growth rate of from 3.5 to 4 per cent in the developing countries."
"11With regard to industrialization, the estimates are far higher. The Second General Conference of UNIDO, when defining the goals for its Lima meeting, stated that at the heart of the international development policy there should stand a target to be achieved in the year 2000 of annual levels of between $450 and $500 billion of which a thirdthat is, from $150 to $160 billionwill have to be financed from external sources."
"11But development is not only agriculture and industrialization. Development primarily involves attention to human beings, who should be the protagonists and goals of all development efforts. To cite the example of Cuba, I will point out that during the last five years our country has invested an average of nearly $200 million a year in school construction. Investment in medical equipment and construction of hospitals, polyclinics and so forth is averaging over $40 million a year. And Cuba is only one of nearly 100 developing countriesand one of the smallest at that, in terms of geography and population. Therefore, it can be deduced that the developing countries will need to have billions of dollars more invested every year to overcome the result of backwardness in education and in public health services."
"12This is the large problem that faces us. And it is not only our problem, a problem for the countries victimized by under-development and insufficient development; it is a problem for the international community as a whole."
"12On more than one occasion it has been said that we were forced into under-development by colonization and imperialist neo-colonization. The task of helping us to emerge from under-development is, first and foremost, an historical and moral obligation for those who benefited from the plunder of our wealth and the exploitation of our men and women for decades and for centuries. But it is, at the same time, the task of mankind as a whole, and the Sixth Conference declared it so."
"12The socialist countries did not participate in the plunder of the world and they are not responsible for the phenomenon of under-development. But even so, because of the nature of their social system, in which international solidarity is a premise, they understand and assume the obligation of helping to overcome that phenomenon."
"12Likewise, when the world expects the oil- producing developing countries to contribute to the universal flow of external financing for development, it does so because of a hope and duty of solidarity among under-developed countries, not because of obligations and duties which no one could hope to impose. The big oil-exporting countries should be aware of their responsibilities."
"12Even those developing countries that are relatively more advanced should make their contributions. Cubawhich is not speaking here on behalf of its own interests and which is not defending here a national objectiveis willing to contribute, in accordance with its means, thousands or tens of thousands of techniciansdoctors, teachers, agronomists, hydraulic engineers, mechanical engineers, economists, middle- level technicians, skilled workers and so forth."
"12The time has therefore come for all of us to join in the task of drawing entire peoples  hundreds of millions of human beings  out of the backwardness, poverty, malnutrition, disease and illiteracy that keep them from enjoying full human dignity and pride. We must therefore muster and mobilize our resources for development, and this is our joint obligation."
"12There are so many special, multilateral, public and private funds whose purpose is to contribute to one or another aspect of developmentagricultural, industrial, meeting balance-of-payments deficits, and so onthat it is not easy for me, in submitting to this thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly this report on economic problems discussed by the Sixth Conference, to formulate a concrete proposal for the establishment of a new fund."
"12But there can be no doubt that the problem of financing should be discussed thoroughly and fully in order to find a solution to it. In addition to the resources already mobilized by various banking channels, loan organizations, international bodies and private finance agencies, we must discuss and decide upon a strategy for the next development decade, so that in that strategy we include an additional contribution of not less than $300 billion, at 1977 real value, to be invested in the under-developed countries and to be made in yearly instalments of at least $25 billion from the very beginning. This aid should be in the form of donations and long-term, low-interest soft credits."
"12It is imperative that these additional funds be mobilized as a contribution of the developed world and of other countries with resources to the underdeveloped world over the next 10 years. If we want peace, these resources will be required. If there are no resources for development, there will be no peace."
"12Some may think that we are asking too much, but I think that the figure itself is still modest. According to statistical information, as I stated at the inaugural session of the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, the world is making an annual investment in military expenditures of more than $300 billion. With $300 billion one could in one year build 600,000 schools, with a capacity for 400 million children; or 60 million comfortable homes, for 300 million people; or 30,000 hospitals, with 18 million beds; or 20,000 factories, with jobs for more than 20 million workers; or an irrigation system to water 150 million hectares of land which, with the appropriate technology, could feed a billion people. Mankind wastes that much every year on its military spending. Moreover, consider further the enormous amount of human resources of young people, technicians, scientists and the wasting of fuel, raw materials and other items. That is the fabulous price of preventing a true climate of confidence and peace from existing in the world."
"13The United States alone will in the 1980s spend six times that much on military activities."
"13We are requesting less for 10 years of development than is spent in a single year by the ministries of war and much less than a tenth of what will be spent for military purposes in 10 years."
"13Some may consider our demand irrational, but where the true irrationality lies is in the world's madness in our era and in the threats and perils which hover over mankind."
"13The enormous responsibility of studying, organizing and distributing these amounts of resources should be entrusted fully to the United Nations. These funds should be administered by the international community itself, on a footing of absolute equality for all countries, whether they be contributors or beneficiaries, without any political conditions and without the amount of the donation having anything to do with the voting power in deciding when loans are to be granted and to whom."
"13Even though the flow of resources should be measured in financial terms, it should not consist only of money. It may well be made up of equipment, fertilizers, raw materials, fuel and complete factories, valued in the terms of international trade. Aid in the form of technical personnel and the training of cadres should also be considered as a contribution and counted as such."
"13We are convinced that if the Secretary-General of the United Nations  with the assistance of the President of the General Assembly, with all the prestige and weight of this Organization behind them, and further supported from the very outset by the backing that the developing countries, and especially the Group of 77, could and would give that initiativewould call together the various factors we have mentioned to initiate discussions in which there would be no room for the so-called \"North-South\" and \"East-West\" antagonisms, but in which all forces would be joined in a common undertaking, a common duty and a common hope, this idea that we are now submitting to the General Assembly could then be crowned with success. This is not a project that would benefit only the developing nations; it would benefit all countries."
"13As revolutionaries, we are not afraid of confrontation. We have placed our trust in history and in peoples. But as the spokesman and interpreter of the feelings of 95 nations, it is my duty here to struggle to achieve co-operation among peoples, a co-operation which, if attained on new and just bases, will benefit all the countries composing the international community and will be a blessing for world peace."
"13Development in the short-term view may well be a task entailing apparent sacrifices and even donations which may seem irrecoverable. But the vast world now living submerged in backwardness with no purchasing power and with extremely limited consumer capacity will, with its development, add a flood of hundreds of consumers and producers to the international economy. And it is only in this way that the international economy can be rehabilitated and can help the developing countries to emerge from the crisis in which they are submerged."
"13The history of international trade has shown that development is the most dynamic factor in world trade. The major portion of the trade of today takes place among fully industrialized countries. We can assure you that as industrialization and progress spread throughout the world, so trade will also spread to the benefit of all."
"13It is for this reason that on behalf of the developing countries we advocate our cause and we ask you to support it. But this is not a gift which we seek from you. If we do not come up with effective solutions, we will all be equal victims of the catastrophe."
"14Human rights are very often spoken of, but we must also speak of humanity's rights. Why should some people go barefoot that others may travel in expensive cars? Why should some live only 35 years that others may live 70? Why should some be miserably poor that others may be exaggeratedly rich? I speak on behalf of the children of the world who do not even have a piece of bread. I speak on behalf of the sick who lack medicine. I speak to you on behalf of those who have been denied the right to life and human dignity."
"14Some countries are on the sea; some are not. Some have energy resources; others do not. Some possess abundant land on which to produce food; others do not. Some are so glutted with machinery and factories that even the air cannot be breathed because of their poisoned atmosphere; and others have only their own emaciated arms with which to earn their daily bread."
"14In short, some countries possess abundant resources; others have nothing. What is their fate? To starve? To be eternally poor? What good is civilization then? Why, then, the conscience of man? Why, then, the United Nations? Why, then, the world? You cannot speak of peace on behalf of tens of millions of human beings all over the world who are starving to death or dying of curable diseases. You cannot speak of peace on behalf of 900 million illiterates."
"14The exploitation of the poor countries by the rich must cease. I know that in many poor countries there are exploiters and those who are exploited. I address myself to the rich, asking them to contribute. And I address myself to the poor, asking them to distribute."
"14Enough of words: now to deeds. Enough of abstractions; we now want concrete action. Enough of speaking about a speculative new international economic order which nobody understands; we must now speak of a real objective order which everybody understands."
"14I have not come here as a prophet of the revolution. I have not come here to ask or to wish that the world be violently convulsed. I have come to speak of peace and co-operation among the peoples, and I have come to warn that, if we do not peacefully and wisely solve and eliminate the present injustices and inequalities, the future will be apocalyptic."
"14The clashing of weapons, the threatening language and the overbearing behaviour in the international arena must cease. Enough of the illusion that the problems of the world can be solved by nuclear weapons. Bombs may kill the hungry, the sick and the ignorant; but bombs cannot kill hunger, disease and ignorance. Nor can bombs kill the righteous rebellion of the peoples. And in the holocaust, the rich, who are the ones who have the most to lose in this world, will also die."
"14Let us say farewell to arms, and let us in a civilized manner dedicate ourselves to the most pressing problems of our times. This is the responsibility, this is the most sacred duty of the statesmen of all the world. Moreover, this is the basic premise for human survival."
"It had been planned that our Foreign Minister would address the Assembly. However, given the great concern that has been caused by the conflict between Iran and Iraq and the obvious desire of the countries of the non-aligned movementa desire shared by many other countriesto see an end to that serious incident, the current Chairman of the Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non- Aligned Countries, Fidel Castro, decided to send Foreign Minister Malmierca to the countries involved, as his representative, in order to initiate a mission of good offices, which is now proceeding."
"We earnestly hope that a peaceful negotiated settlement will speedily put an end to that conflict which divides two members of the non-aligned movement and which entails serious consequences for both those countries, the countries of the third world and the interests of international peace and security."
"On behalf of the Government of Cuba and its Minister for Foreign Affairs, I should like to extend our cordial congratulations to Mr. von Wechmar on his unanimous election as President of the thirty-fifth session of the General Assembly and to pledge our determined co-operation in the discharge of his important functions."
"We should also like to express our great admiration for the exemplary manner in which his predecessor, Mr. Salim Ahmed Salim, conducted the proceedings of the thirty- fourth session of the General Assembly and those of the three special sessions over which he presided. His performance in presiding over the meetings of this body does honour to his country, the United Republic of Tanzania, and the entire African continent."
"We wish also to express our appreciation for the outstanding work which the Secretary-General has done on behalf of international peace and security."
"I come to this rostrum on a day of special significance for Cubans. Today we commemorate the one hundred and twelfth anniversary of the beginning of our heroic struggle for independence. We are also celebrating the return to our land of the first cosmonaut of Cuba and of Latin America. A few hours ago, the people in the capital, Havana, on behalf of all Cubans, extended to Colonel Tamayo and his companion pilot: the special welcome which that event deserves. That sums up the achievements of 20 years of our revolution and it is our modest contribution to the efforts being made for the development of science and technology in the service of peace and progress for mankind."
"Today we are completing the general debate of this session of the General Assembly. If anyone could give a precise definition of the nature of our deliberations, it would unquestionably be that the overwhelming majority of those who have preceded me to this rostrum have expressed great concern over the ominous turn of events in the international situation during the last few months."
"There has not been a greater threat to the peace and security of the world since the time of the so-called cold war and the \"policy of brinkmanship\". Mankind's aspiration to move towards detente, general and complete disarmament especially nuclear disarmamentdevelopment and international economic co-operation has been frustrated time and again by the re-emergence of a policy of war, the replacement of dialogue by confrontation, the stagnation of negotiations to limit strategic weapons and the non-ratification of the SALT II agreement,  as well as by the failure of the eleventh special session of the General Assembly devoted to economic questions and the constant deterioration of the economies of the developing countries."
"To those factors which have a negative effect on the world situation must be added the emergence of new sources of tension and discord in various parts of the world, the aggravation of problems in the Middle East as a result of the expansionist and colonialist policies of Israel, the increased tension in the Indian Ocean, the Arab Gulf and the Caribbean and Central American region as a result of the escalation of the war-like policies of the United States and the establishment of new bases and imperialist facilities in those areas. Also there has been as increase of interventionism in South-East Asia, encouraged by the hegemonists in Beijing and their new allies in the United States, and in El Salvador and the formation of a reactionary \"holy alliance\" against the revolutionary peoples and countries"
"1When we speak of peace we must necessarily refer to the one and indivisible peace which the peoples of the world wanta peace with responsibilities and benefits for all, and not a limited peace, one which is of interest only to some Powers. Peace must be universal and must be based on respect for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of States, within secure and recognized boundaries. There can be no peace without detente and disarmament. That is why it is necessary for us to concentrate our efforts on achieving an effective relaxation of international tension and continuing negotiations on the limitation of nuclear weapons and general and complete disarmament. Also, there can be no peace without development."
"1The need to establish a just and equitable international economic order, to eliminate unequal exchanges and barriers to the expansion of trade with the developed countries; the need to transform the world monetary system so as to reflect the requirements of our countries; the need to ensure, during this decade, a massive flow of financial and material resources for development; the need to transfer technology in assailable and un-burdensome conditions; and the urgent need to give assistance to the relatively less developed countries and to promote economic, scientific and technological co-operation among our countriesall these constitute sine qua non conditions for a just and lasting peace."
"1This is not mere rhetoric. The legitimate interests of each of the 154 States Members of the United Nations must be recognized now and no one must be guided solely by narrow national interests, no matter how justified those interests may be. The world will not be capable of tackling or, of course, resolving the grave economic problems which have arisen during the last fifth of the century without broad and deep international co-operation."
"1Cuba hopes that the obstacles and difficulties which we recently encountered when we discussed the International Development Strategy for the Third United Nations Development Decade, and especially the next round of global negotiations, arising from the intransigence and narrow-mindedness of a few developed capitalist countries, will be overcome in the coming months so that we can lay the groundwork for the necessary co-operation which our peoples demand."
"1Twenty years ago the United Nations took a step of historic importance when it adopted the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. In the years since then the political map of the world has changed radically with the attainment of an independent sovereign life by dozens of countries."
"1Today we welcome the entry of the Republic of Zimbabwe into the Organization as a full-fledged Member, following its historic victory over the forces of racism, oppression and colonialism. We also welcome the emergence of the Republic of Vanuatu and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines as new independent States."
"1The disgrace of colonialism and the monstrous outgrowth of the racist mentality that is known as apartheid still prey on the peoples of southern Africa. After years of unfruitful negotiations, which in various delaying tactics have reflected the twisted intentions of South Africa and its Western allies, and despite the firm resistance of the Namibian patriots under the leadership of their legitimate representative, the South West Africa People's Organization [SWAPO], Namibia continues to be occupied and the will of the international community has been brutally stifled by the racist regime of Pretoria and the handful of imperialist countries which support it to the hilt by preventing the implementation of the sanctions provided for in Chapter VII of the Charter."
"1In the year of the twentieth anniversary of the Declaration against colonialism, Cuba reiterates its unswerving solidarity with the people of Namibia, with its vanguard, SWAPO, and with the cause of its independence and sovereignty throughout the entire Territory, including Wallis Bay. Our support also goes to the black people of South Africa and to their liberation movement, the African National Congress [ANC] in their just struggle against apartheid and for a majority government of the people."
"1The remnants of colonialism are not limited, however, to southern Africa. Once again we proclaim the right of the Latin American people of Puerto Rico to self-determination and independence; the right of Belize to complete the process of decolonization and accede to independence without further delay and to preserve the integrity of its territory; the right of the Sahraoui people to establish a sovereign, free republic in its ancestral home; the right of Madagascar to recover its sovereignty over the islands of Juan de Nova, Bassas da India, Europa and Glorieuses; and, finally the right of all subjected peoples to emancipate themselves finally from colonial domination."
"1Similarly, Cuba supports the unconditional withdrawal of United States troops from the south of the territory of Korea and the peaceful reunification of the Korean people without foreign interference."
"2We support the right of the peoples of Indo-China and of the whole of South-East Asia to live in peace and security and we reject any interference in their internal affairs. We also condemn the usurpation of the legitimate rights of the Government of the People's Republic of Kampuchea in the Assembly by the genocidal Pol Pot clique."
"2The question of Palestine, the core of the Middle East conflict, has today won the support of all progressive mankind. For more than 30 years the Palestinian people, under the courageous and staunch leadership of the Palestine Liberation Organization [PLO], it sole legitimate representative, has been waging a battle against the Zionist State of Israel, which has been trying to trample upon its inalienable national rights."
"2It must be repeated that a just and lasting peace in that crucial part of the world can be achieved only by the unconditional withdrawal of Israeli forces from all the Arab and Palestinian territory occupied since June 1967; by the effective exercise by the Palestinian people of its inalienable rights, including its right to return to its home, to receive compensation for the losses caused by the illegal occupiers and to establish its own State in Palestine; and by the participation of the PLO, on an equal footing in all negotiations which may take place to resolve the question of the Middle East. In that context, Cuba reiterates its vigorous condemnation of the so-called Camp David accords, in so far as they claim to provide a solution of the Palestinian question without the PLO, of the unilateral"
"2In accordance with the decisions of the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Havana from 3 to 9 September 1979, Cuba considers that the international community must demand the implementation of the most severe sanctions provided for in the Charter of the United Nations against the Zionist regime of Israel."
"2The situation in the Indian Ocean requires the most rapid possible implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace and to that end we support the convening at Colombo of the Conference on the Indian Ocean in accordance with General Assembly resolution 34/80 B, and, as a complement thereto, the summit meeting proposed by the President of Madagascar, Didier Ratsiraka."
"2The irrational forces which pull against the tide of history are attempting to return us to the world of barbarism and fascism that existed before the birth of logic. The creation of interventionist \"special rapid deployment forces\" is compounded by the installation of 500 missiles with nuclear warheads in Western Europe, the interruption of negotiations on disarmament and the threat of non-ratification of the SALT II agreement; as well as the attempt by the United States Congress unilaterally to revise the Panama Canal Treaties, signed only after an historic battle by the people and Government of Panama; and the creation of new alliances and military installations, in this and other continents, with obvious expansionist and counterrevolutionary purposes."
"2Invoking arguments which have been rejected by our peoples, they are attempting to convert the Caribbean into a Yankee lake and plotting all kinds of conspiracies against the revolutionary countries of the area. To their plans to destabilize the Governments of Jamaica and Grenada, we can now add their open support for the Fascist military- Christian Democratic junta in El Salvador through the supply of the weapons and technology of genocide and the repetition of the shameful stages of their collusion with the regimes of Trujillo, Somoza and Batista. The Monroe Doctrine has been resuscitated with the abject complicity of certain Latin American regimes which, betraying the legacy of the liberators, have colluded in the extermination and persecution of the Salvadorian patriots. Our peoples will punish"
"2Cuba condemns the brutal repression of the Fascist military against our brothers in El Salvador, as well as the attempts to intervene, directly or indirectly, in that country, with a view to undermining the inevitable victory of the people, Cuba restates its support for the heroic resistance of the Bolivian people against the military coup, fomented and supported by outside forces, which cancelled out the electoral victory of the People's Democratic Union and has subjected the country to a shady and corrupt tyranny, headed by a group of international traffickers."
"2The policy of harassment against the Cuban revolution is continuing: the blockade persists and new imperialist threats are voiced; fresh terrorist attacks have been made upon our diplomatic missions abroad, such as the attack against a staff member of the Cuban Mission to the United Nations, our unforgettable comrade Felix Garcia."
"2In Latin America some still claim to be defenders of human rights while trampling under foot the memory of Bolivar and taking part in the genocide of the Salvadorian people. In a recent, unprecedented step, they proposed the acquittal of the group of convicted assassins who, in 1976, to the horror of the world, blew up an airborne plane full of Cuban passengers over Barbados, causing the death of 73 persons. The inconceivable actions of the Venezuelan authorities can only encourage in future the carrying out of new and cowardly terrorist acts."
"3Those who once again believe that they can encircle and isolate the Cuban revolution arc mistaken. Today, as yesterday, the acts of aggression and plots of the imperialists and their lackeys will come up against the courage and determination of our people. The voice of Cuba will never be intimidated or silenced. No reactionary force can stand in the way of the victory of the peoples of Latin America."
"3For the peoples of the third world, the existence and strengthening of the United Nations system has acquired growing importance. Created to safeguard peace and to prevent the recurrence of war, the Organization has become an indispensable driving force behind initiatives in support of detente, general and complete disarmament, decolonization and international co-operation. Its universal character must be reaffirmed, as must its primary role in the creation of a new international order that is just and equitable and as an instrument to produce peaceful solutions to conflicts which have convulsed the world in its present phase of upheaval and transformation."
"3The policies and principles of the movement of non- aligned countries have always been primarily aimed at the conservation of the independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and security of our peoples; the elimination of interference and foreign intervention in the internal and external affairs of States and of the use or threat of the use of force; the elimination of colonialism and neo-colonialism, apartheid, racism, including Zionism; the prevention of the division of the world into blocs; the halting of the arms race, especially of nuclear arms and achievement of general and complete disarmament under effective international control; the promotion of solidarity and co-operation among the non-aligned countries; the speedy establishment of the new international economic order with a view to"
"3In the capitalist world undermined by the economic, political and moral crisis which characterizes those societies that are no longer in step with history, the forces that would bring us back to the past may be heard, the dark forces of fascism, expansionism and war may still be found. Let no one be mistaken, the outlook in the next 20 years is discernible. Either the international community will be capable of placing the fabulous resources of the scientific and technological revolution at the service of mankind through cooperation and through the building of a new system of world relations, or mankind's hopes for a world free of the scourge of war, oppression and poverty will be frustrated once again."
"3As revolutionaries we arc not frightened by the idea of future social change being produced through violent means, But if we are not to be remiss, we must realize that tomorrow's world will come about peacefully only if our generation is capable of exchanging weapons for tools of labour; confrontation for dialogue; and pursuit of narrow national interests for fruitful and just collaboration among all nations."
"3Cuba will always be ready to help to achieve these lofty ideals, contained in the Charter of the United Nations."
NA
"Any court of law, any responsible forum, condemns murder. International law also condemns aggression. The killing of children is in particular even more revolting. Ninety-nine children have died in Cuba. They were victims of the hemorrhagic dengue epidemic that took a toll of 156 lives. This epidemic broke out simultaneously in various parts of the country when there had been no news of any cases in other States of the area."
"13In less than three years our country has suffered the scourge of five grave plagues and epidemics, which have hit our cattle, our plantations and now our people. 	 	"
"13Swine fever, blue mold in tobacco,, sugarcane rot, hemorrhagic dengue and, more recently, when we were still in the process of fighting off that last disease, hemorrhagic conjunctivitis. We are convinced that the imperialists, the agencies of the United States Government, are using biological weapons against the people of Cuba. We all know and it has been published even in"
". United States official publications that the United States has for many years been developing a very wide and sophisticated arsenal of weapons of this type and carrying out many tests for their possible use."
"13We all know also that the United States, has used these weapons, particularly during its War against the people of Viet Nam, and many are the United State's\" veterans of that war who are still suffering in the United States from the effects of exposure in areas near places where such weapons were used."
"13In the case of the hemorrhagic dengue epidemic, this is a disease produced by the dengue virus No. 2. The' thorough, serious and detailed studies carried put by Cuba's technical and scientific personnel, who have also had the aid and cooperation of highly qualified experts from other countries, have led to the conclusion' that this virus was deliberately introduced into Cuba."
"13As a result of a systematic and exhaustive analysis of all the available information from health agencies; and institutions as well as from other sources, we have verified that when the hemorrhagic dengue epidemic appeared in Cuba no epidemic outbreaks of the dengue virus No. 2 had taken place in any of the African or SouthEast Asian countries with which we have relations. Our health authorities have determined that no Cuban or foreign citizen coming from those regions or from other areas had suffered from the disease produced by that virus."
"13Nor were there outbreaks of dengue virus No. 2 in Latin America or in the Caribbean basin. The last cases registered there date from 1978. On the other hand, we know that the research centers of the United States dedicated to the development of biological weapons have devoted special attention to dengue virus No. 2."
"13We are firmly convinced that, to the long list of aggressions of all sorts against our people military; economic and political aggressions committed by the Republican and Democratic Administrations that have succeeded one another during 22 years the United States has now added the use of biological weapons."
"14The President of the Council of State and of the Council of Ministers of Cuba, CommanderinChief Fidel Castro, in speeches on 26 July arid 15 September of this year, has denounced the perpetration of this unspeakable new aggression against our people by the United States Government. We have requested the distribution to all those here present of these speeches, which contain numerous references to and much evidence of the admission in official documents of the United States Senate and other bodies that, on various occasions, as part of the activities aimed at the overthrow of the Revolutionary Government of Cuba, the preparation of the use of biological weapons was mentioned."
"14These facts have not been denied by the responsible authorities of the United States Government, in spite  of the fact that President Fidel Castro has challenged them to state before world public opinion whether or not they have' authorized the Central Intelligence Agency [CIA] to perpetuate such acts."
"14For more than 20 years we have suffered from all types of aggression from the United States imperialists, and we have accumulated a vast amount of painful experience. But, as President Fidel Castro has stated, \"we do not fear the imperialists' threats. They may perhaps know when to start a conflict against us, but what nobody knows is when and how it will end\"."
"14It particularly pleases the delegation of Cuba to see you, Mr. Kittani, the Deputy Foreign Minister of Iraq, assume the presidency at this thirty-sixth session of the General. Assembly. Your recognized ability and experience will enable you to guide our work at this session, which we are sure will be no easy task, for the session is being held in an international climate of tension and turmoil in which the policy of blackmail and imperialist aggression threatens to put an end to the precarious and uncertain peace in which we live today. Fraternal bonds of friendship and cooperation link us with your country, and I can assure you that you will not lack the support of the Cuban delegation."
"14We extend our warm congratulations to the Republic of Vanuatu on its independence, to which we gave our support within the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and on its having become a full Member of the United Nations."
"14On 1 September of this year, the twentieth anniversary of the nonaligned movement was commemorated. Its vitality, continuity and fidelity to the cause of national liberation, peace, disarmament, anti-imperialism, anti colonialism, and anti-neocolonialism, its struggle against racism, Zionism and apartheid and its struggle for a just and equitable international economic order have provided the movement with a solid basis for unity and have enabled it to put its stamp of approval on the majority of the most important decisions taken by the Organization."
"14We reiterate our salute to the 20 years of existence of the movement. To those who would split or destroy it we say that they will fail, that they will find instead that the movement is a powerful instrument of solidarity for the countries of what is known as the third world."
"14We recall with sorrow that it has not been possible to put an end to the distressing conflict between Iraq and fern. Cuba and its President, Fidel Castro, have endeavored, since the first days of the war and even before its outbreak, to contribute to a peaceful, political, honorable and just solution, Recently, these efforts have been conducted jointly with other ministers of the nonaligned movement, and it is our firm determination to continue to persist in trying to bring about the desired solution to this conflict."
"14At this, the midpoint of the fourth decade in the life of the United Nations, when one might, think about the triumphs achieved in the implementation of the Charter, as shown especially by the increase in the number of Members of the Organization, that is, the number of countries that have gained their independence and sovereignty when one might think that an international order founded on the principles and purposes of the Charter would by now be given permanent shape, it must be pointed out that the United States Government has cast aside even minimal respect for the norms of peaceful coexistence and the desire for sovereignty of the majority of the States and has laid claim to unacceptable supremacy in all areas of international life, particularly military supremacy, which jeopardizes the carefully wrought structure of peace and international law created in the aftermath of the defeat of the Fascist and Nazi forces in the Second World War."
"14Mr. Reagan's Government is striving to impose its hegemony on the entire world and arrogantly claims a special place for the United States that would enable it to decide all questions posed in international relations in favor of United States imperialist interests and its transnational corporations. Not even Washington's closest allies escape ill treatment at the hands of the new United States administration, whose policies affect their economic situation and endanger their territories and peoples with no concern for the misgivings of the governments of those allies, nor for the protests or opinions of their populations."
"15The facts are irrefutable. The opinions of the majorities irritate the self-proclaimed champions of democracy. Those who arrogate for themselves the right to describe as terrorist the leaders of other countries and the prestigious national liberation movements apply terrorism with their military forces all over the world and place themselves beyond the pale of international legality."
"15With respect to the legal order to be established on the oceans and the importance of rapidly concluding an agreement as a step towards a new international economic order, after eight years of lengthy negotiations at the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, the international community has seen with bafflement and indignation how the new United States Administration has rejected the draft convention, ignoring the negotiations already concluded with the participation of the United States delegation and the commitments made, on the pretext of reviewing the text, thus unnecessarily prolonging the work of the Conference."
"15The participating States now recognize more clearly, in view of the arrogance and aggressiveness of the Government of the United States, as shown by the recent provocations against the sovereignty of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the immediate need for a convention on the sea whether the United States is a party to it or not and even if everyone's aspirations to universality are not achieved an agreement that would sanction internationally the rights proclaimed by many countries over their territorial waters and that would prevent incidents such as that of the Gulf of Sirte."
"15Recently, at the opening of the InterParliamentary Conference in Havana, the President of the Council of State of Cuba, Fidel Castro, affirmed:"
"\"The United States system is not Fascist, but I am firmly convinced that the group constituting the main core of the current United States Administration is Fascist; its thinking is fascist; its arrogant rejection of every human rights policy is fascist; its foreign policy is fascist; its contempt for world peace is Fascist; its intransigent refusal to seek formulas for honorable coexistence among States is Fascist; its arrogance, its conceit, its arms buildup, its pursuit of military superiority at all costs, its relish of violence and domination, its methods of blackmail and terror; its alliance with Pinochet and with the most brutal regimes of this hemisphere, whose methods of repression, terror, torture and disappearances have taken the lives of tens of thousands of people, often without their relatives even knowing where their bodies lie; and its shameless alliance with South Africa and apartheid are clearly Fascist; its threatening language and its lies are fascist. Never will I say that the people of"
"\"Our hopes are founded on the convention that fascism can succeed neither in the United States nor in the world, although it is true that at present a fascist leadership has established itself in the United States over the structure of an imperialist bourgeois democracy; and this is extremely dangerous.\""
"15The results of the actions of the current United States Administration have already been felt in all their severity in southern Africa, in the Middle East and in the Caribbean, among other regions. Who can deny that South Africa dared to attack Angola because it is certain of support from the United States?"
"15The visit of UnderSecretary Crocker to South Africa and the meeting between Reagan and Botha, which received such widespread publicity in the United States, as well as the statements rejecting the defense of human rights and the marked interest in making the Pretoria racists fee! they are part of a strategic alliance with the United States, made it possible for them to step up their military and subversive actions against the front-line States and particularly against Angola and Mozambique."
"15Who can deny that the United States veto of the condemnation of the aggressors against Angola and of sanctions against them constitutes proof of its encouragement and support of the illegal and hateful apartheid regime? The aggression against Angola seeks to extend apartheid's frontiers. It is an aggression not only against Angola but against the whole of black Africa and especially against the countries of southern Africa. The racists must withdraw from southern Angola and stop their acts of hostility against the rest of the front-line States."
"15Israel is another fundamental link in the strategic alliance advocated by Washington. As in' the case of Pretoria, the Zionist authorities felt that, with Reagan's accession to the White House, their finest hour had arrived and they decided to take advantage of it promptly. The Zionists' main objective is still the same; the genocide of the Palestinian people and its disappearance as a nation. The.. Nazi methods suffered yesterday by the Hebrew people are employed today by Begin against the heroic Palestinian people."
"15We are certain that the heroic struggle being waged by the Palestinian people, led by the PLC), its sole legitimate representative, will be victorious and that nothing can prevent that people from establishing its own independent State in accordance with its inalienable rights."
"15The bombings of Lebanon, the aggression against the peaceful nuclear research, center in Iraq, a deed unprecedented in peacetime, the threats against the Syrian Arab Republic and Jordan events which have all taken place in the few short months since the inauguration of the new Yankee Administration these are indications of the consequences of the strategic agreement recently concluded in Washington by Reagan and Begin, aimed at confirming the role of Israel as a pivot of Yankee world strategy."
"16In the Caribbean and Central America, the United States, in addition to using bacteriological methods against the population, the crops and the cattle in Cuba and giving die green light to the CIA to renew and step up its plots against the lives of the main leaders of the Cuban Revolution and its subversive and destabilizing actions, has intensified its interventionist and genocidal acts in El Salvador, arming and advising a terrorist Government that has murdered over 20,000 children of that noble and heroic people."
"16Through its vast propaganda machinery, Yankee imperialism, resorting systematically to the most brazen and shameless lies, accuses Cuba of being the cause of the instability in Central America. It is not Cuba but Yankee imperialism that has imposed and protected unpopular and obnoxious Governments whose only virtue has been to protect the system of economic exploitation of the peoples of the region. It is imperialism, with its direct or indirect military intervention through reactionary regimes, which must assume the responsibility for the absence of peace in Central America."
"16The Government of Cuba has publicly denied that some of the weapons delivered to it by the Soviet Union are being redistributed in Central America. It has affirmed that it is a lie to say that Cuba is supplying any other weapons or ammunition to the Salvadoran patriot and that there are or have been Cuban advisers in El Salvador. These are the facts and, as facts,' they are irrefutable, which does riot imply either a commitment or a moral judgment on the right to give military aid to the forces struggling in El Salvador against the junta, forces whose political representativeness has been recognized by France and Mexico and has just been proclaimed, by an overwhelming vote, by the countries participating in the 68th InterParliamentary Conference."
"16What is not a lie and cannot be denied by the United States leaders is that military and police advisers from the Governments of the United States and Venezuela are training the genocidal forces of the Christian Democratic Junta of Et Salvador; that the Salvadoran military is being taught the techniques of repression by Pinochet's Fascists in Chile; and that it is with Yankee helicopters, Yankee aircraft, Yankee weapons and Yankee bullets that the Salvadoran people are being murdered."
"16In a cry for justice based on the principles of international law and the interests of the nations and peoples of die world in search of peaceful solutions to the hotbeds of tension that poison the international atmosphere, the Governments of Mexico and France agreed to recognize the representativeness of the patriots of the National Liberation Front and the Democratic Revolutionary Front, thus trying to reach a negotiated and political solution to this bloody drama. Showing its real interventionist intents and purposes, the United States reacted violently against the FrancoMexican initiative and, using its allies in the Government of Venezuela, compelled these pseudo-democrats to join the worst tyrannies of the continent in a condemnatory statement. Pinochet, Stroessner, Herrera Campms, all in the same bag, with Reagan leading them by the hand, are trying to obstruct the search for a negotiated and political settlement to the civil war in El Salvador."
"16We wholeheartedly hail Belize's accession to independence after a long struggle to thwart the annexationist intentions of the oppressors of the Guatemalan people and we are pleased to see that in a few hours, Belize will become a full Member of the United Nations."
"16In Puerto Rico the clamor for an end to that island's colonial status, is increasing. The vast ^majority of the Puerto Rican political organizations, not only those seeking independence, demand that the General Assembly consider Puerto Rico's case at its thirty seventh session, as was approved at the recently concluded session of the decolonization Committee. Cuba supports the right of this brother people to independence and is sure that, in the fulfillment of its obligations, the Assembly will not deny to the Puerto Rican people the right to have its tragic situation considered."
"16Cuba has always supported the legitimate aspiration of the Argentine people to see the Malvinas Islands come under their national sovereignty, as well as the just demand of the Bolivian people to have an outlet to the sea."
"16We also support the right of the people of East Timor to self-determination."
"16In Western Sahara, the Sahraoui people has through its heroism earned the respect and admiration of the whole world. We support its unshakable will to achieve self-determination and independence."
"17As a consequence of colonialism, Mayotte has been artificially withdrawn from Comorian sovereignty and Madagascar has not yet recovered its rights over the Malagasy islands of Glorieuses, Juan de Nova, Europa and Bassas da India. We trust that the speediest solution can be found for these anachronistic situations."
"17Just as the self-determination of a people cannot be prevented, so a nation cannot be kept artificially divided. The presence in and virtual occupation of South Korea by the United States prevents peaceful reunification and the end of foreign interference in Korea. The Korean people has built a prosperous and happy country in the north under the leadership of its President, Kim II Sung, and is imbued with the noblest ideals of reunification of the divided homeland."
"17Cuba supports the Government and the people of Panama in its struggle for the implementation of the agreements on the Canal and supports the Guatemalan people, which has risen up in arms against the cruel tyranny imposed on it since the United States intervention of 1954."
"17Cuba likewise supports the efforts of the people of Cyprus to preserve its independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity as a united and nonaligned republic."
"17In SouthEast Asia, we believe that only a negotiated solution can put an end to the existing tensions. Cuba has fully supported the proposals of Viet Nam, Laos and Kampuchea to hold a regional conference for that purpose, with the participation of the other States of the region. At the same time, we emphasize our unswerving recognition of the sole legitimate representative of the Kampuchean people: the People's Government of Kampuchea."
"17As Chairman of the movement of nonaligned countries, Cuba has lent its good offices and today renews its willingness to continue to do so in the search for a negotiated political solution to the situation in SouthWest Asia. Such a solution should, in our opinion, entail the end of intervention and interference in the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan, together with the necessary international guarantees, and die creation of conditions permitting the normalization of relations among all States in the area on the basis of the principles and purposes of nonalignment."
"17The second special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament will be held in 1982. We all remember that, at the time of the first special session, the heads of State of the countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization [NATO] met in Washington and, under pressure from the United States Government, proclaimed their readiness to increase their arsenals. This inauspicious sign allowed us to foresee that progress in the implementation of the decisions adopted by the tenth special session of the General Assembly would be meagre. Since then, the United States has continued to take steps to achieve military superiority, although it becomes clearer every day that its NATO partners are resisting this Yankee pressure for political and economic reasons."
"17The increase of war expenditures to unprecedented levels, the reduction of the budget for social expenses, applying the painful practice of less butter and more guns, the creation of rapid deployment forces, the decision to install 572 medium-range missiles in Europe, the production of the neutron bomb and of the MX missile system, the increase in the number of nuclear aircraft carriers and Trident submarines, the reactivation of large warships, all are actions which serve to unleash an arms race whose end is impossible to predict."
"17We are sure that the United States will try its utmost to prevent the convening of the forthcoming special session devoted to disarmament. Even if it is held, the prospects for United States cooperation and contribution to its success are dim."
"17In June of this year, the People's National Assembly of Cuba expressed its strong and resolute support for the appeal made by the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet"
"Union to all parliaments and peoples of the world concerning the critical international situation, aggravated as it has been by the dangerous increase in the arms race It was reiterated in that decision that \"peace is essential in the struggle for development, since the struggle for peace is tantamount to the struggle for development and implies the uprooting of the deep inequalities still extant as a result of colonial and neo-colonial domination, racial discrimination, racism, Zionism and apartheid"
"18The nonaligned countries, who took the initiative to convene the forthcoming special session, will strive for the success of this new session of the Assembly. Cuba promises to contribute to that cause and hopes that that session will become a battleground for universal peace and the renewal of detente."
"18My delegation also supports the important proposal submitted to the Assembly by the Soviet Union on the prevention of a nuclear catastrophe through a solemn commitment by all States possessing nuclear weapons, and their leaders, not to be the first to use them in case of conflict."
"18I should like now to refer to one of the most transcendental problems confronting the world today, namely, the international economic situation."
"18Cuba has upheld and upholds the view that peace and development are indivisible elements of international relations. We can talk about peace, disarmament and international security; we can take action to limit arms or to ban certain weapons; but we will not really have attained an effective and lasting solution to the tensions, conflicts and contradictions that threaten the world until we find a way of guaranteeing the complete and permanent elimination of inequality among nations through the establishment of a new system of international relations, one that will allow the beginning of a just and equitable new international economic order."
"18The situation now facing the majority of the developing countries is not new; it has been progressively deteriorating for more than 20 years. However, now, in the middle of the greatest crisis that the capitalist system has suffered in the postwar period, that deterioration has become increasingly swift and far-reaching."
"18The international agencies, and in particular the ones belonging to the United Nations system, have outlined innumerable plans,^ adopted many resolutions and convened several conferences to deal with the problems of economic and social development. In all of them, the problems which afflict the countries of the so-called third world have been clearly identified, and in some of them measures have been suggested which, although they do not fully solve these problems, would certainly contribute to lessening their effects. However, in spite of the efforts made, these ideas and initiatives have not made it possible to advance towards a real restructuring of international relations."
"18Has this perhaps been because of the incapacity of the international organizations involved or the negligence of the developing countries, for whom the effective implementation of a new international economic order is a matter of life and death, or because of the shortage of resources at a global level which prevents the developed countries from fulfilling their obligations to the developing countries? No, these have not been the causes of the failure of the international economic negotiations. This failure has stemmed and still stems from the narrow and intransigent policies and practices of a group of developed capitalist countries which, headed by' the United States, persist in maintaining the privileges and bonuses they have enjoyed for centuries in their relations with the developing countries at the expense of the exploitation and poverty of the latter."
"18Never before in the history of mankind have the underdeveloped countries seen themselves submitted to such merciless exploitation and such a marked economic penetration as at the present time. The leaders of the developed capitalist countries have endeavored to transfer to the developing countries the effects of the crisis generated by their own structures. The dependency of the developing countries on the economies of the western metropolises has increased to an unprecedented level, through the spiral of external debt, through the continued generation and exacerbation of unfair trade flows, through limiting the access of the third-world countries to the markets of the world and to the technology and the resources available to the capitalist West, through the preservation of unfair and disorderly international monetary relations, and through promoting in the economies of the countries of the developing world an increasing penetration by transnational corporations, which add iniquitous financial profits"
"18The policy followed by the Government of the United States clearly exemplifies what I have just stated. The high interest rates decreed by the Reagan Administration, besides being ineffective in solving the structural crisis of the American economy and harming even the western allies of the United States, impose a new and heavy burden on the underdeveloped countries, raising to unsuspected heights the already unbearable cost of servicing their colossal debts. Furthermore, the United States advocates as a policy a considerable increase of foreign private investments in the developing countries as a sort of magic wand to solve their economic problems."
"18Nothing could be further from the truth, as the following figures show: between 1970 and 1978, United States investments in the third world reached a total of $8.7 billion, while in the same period the profits of that country from those investments were of the order of some $39.7 billion, representing a profit of $4.5 on each newly invested dollar."
"19These dollars, then, contribute nothing towards paying the debts of the countries of the developing world; they do nothing to help feed the hungry, cure the sick, educate the illiterate or give work to the unemployed. Their sole use is to fill the bottomless vaults of the transnational corporations and the Federal Government of the United States."
"19Is that the way to fight underdevelopment and all its consequences? No. Actually, that is an inverse transfer of resources, from the developing countries to the developed market economy countries, the effect of which is the ever-increasing enrichment of opulent societies and the increasingly abject poverty of the underdeveloped countries!"
"19thus, there are today in the developing world 570 million undernourished people, 800 million illiterate adults, 1.5 billion people with no access to medical care, 1.3 billion people with a yearly income of less than $90, 1.7 billion with a life expectancy of less than 60 years, 1,030 million living in inadequate housing, 250 million children who do not attend any school and 1.1 billion unemployed. And this situation is not improving; it is deteriorating."
"19At the thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly, in October 1979 [31st meeting], CommanderinChief Fidel Castro, President of the Council of State and the Council Ministers of Cuba and Chairman of the movement of nonaligned countries, presented formulas to provide a solution to the unfair situation of the underdeveloped countries. In addition to the cancellation of the external debt of the least developed countries, he proposed the establishment of an additional fund of not less than $300 billion, at 1977 real value, to be distributed from the first years in annual sums of not less than $25 billion. This aid should be in the form of donations and longterm, low-interest soft credits, and other forms of participation."
"19The real implementation of this proposal would indeed represent in spite of the self-seeking doubts of those who characterize it as unrealistic benefits for the underdeveloped countries and . a true contribution to the eradication of poverty, illiteracy, unsanitary conditions and other consequences of underdevelopment, which have been aggravated by the crises of the capitalist structures. However, in order to carry out a significant battle against underdevelopment, it is essential to have an international political climate governed by peace, detente and full respect for the security of all."
"19For these reasons we must oppose the arms race, the manufacture of neutron bombs, the deployment of the 572 medium-range missiles in Europe, the production of the MX missile systems at a cost of tens of billions of dollars, of new strategic bombers, of nuclear aircraft carriers, of Trident submarines, the reactivation of big warships from the Second World War, the investment of $1,500,000,000,000, in military expenditures in the next five years, and the greatest arms race in history, as engineered by the United States."
"19These enormous military expenditures, which can only serve to aggravate the world economic crisis, will have negative repercussions on the living and working conditions Of the working class and can only lead mankind to an unprecedented catastrophe."
"19The threat of war is real. It is no secret that the brazen, adventurous policy of the imperialist Government of the United States has pushed the world to the brink of the abyss."
"19As was stated by President Fidel Castro in his opening,, speech to the 68th InterParliamentary Conference:"
"\"We must face these real dangers serenely and courageously. We cannot afford to be pessimistic, for then the battle for peace would be lost beforehand. We cannot be cowardly, for then dignity as well as peace would be lost beforehand. We can and should preserve peace without yielding an inch, backed by the mobilization of the peoples, including those of the United States, and by the immense power of world opinion and the universal conscience, as shown during Viet Nam's heroic struggle; by the current correlation of forces between socialism and imperialism, which the latter vainly seeks to tilt in its favor; by the people's capacity and determination to fight and resist any imperialist aggression; by international solidarity, which can and should be expressed in a thousand different new ways.\""
NA
NA
"On 8 October 1967, exactly 13 years ago, revolutionaries and freedom"
"fighters all over the world learned with both grief and indignation"
"that Commander Ernesto Che Guevara, the heroic guerrilla, had been"
"murdered in Bolivia. Today, from this rostrum, where he spoke as a"
"representative of the Cuban revolution, we should pay him the only"
"tribute he would accept, that of following faithfully his example and"
"struggling to achieve true independence for our peoples and to"
"repulse any attempt to rob us of the rights that we have already won."
"May he continue fighting wherever the children of our oppressed"
"peoples are struggling for freedom and keep working wherever creative"
"efforts are paving the way to development."
"The Arab peoples have waged a long struggle to win recognition of"
"their right to govern in their own land. As early as 1881 Jose Martel"
"said The brilliant Arabs should at all costs return to Arabia, as"
"though avenging their centuries old oriental drift. He was then"
"referring to the rebellions against European colonial domination and"
"movingly praising the spirit that the Arab peoples brought to their"
"fight. Few struggles, however, have attained such heroic heights and"
"mobilized all the people young and old, women and children as the one"
"that we have just witnessed in the long days of the Palestinian"
"people's struggle against the genocidal Zionist imperialist invasion"
"of Lebanon."
"At the meeting of the Co coordinating Bureau of the Non Aligned held"
"in Nicosia, during the unforgettable moments of the defense of"
"Beirut, the non  aligned movement, that powerful, independent force"
"grouping nearly 100 States, declared that it was necessary to"
"recognize the Palestinian people's right to establish their own State"
"and return to their homeland. The Twelfth Arab Summit Conference"
"expressed itself in much the same terms, and it also insisted on the"
"necessity of recognizing the PLO as the sole legitimate"
"representative of the Palestinian people."
"The non aligned countries call for the immediate holding of an"
"international conference on Palestine, with the participation of the"
"PLO and all States interested in finding a real, permanent solution"
"to the situation in the Middle East, where the nub, the first step,"
"must be recognition of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian"
"people."
NA
"By entering west Beirut, in a gesture of utter disregard for world"
"public opinion and for Israel's pledges to respect the peace"
"agreements, Israeli troops created the conditions for Haddad's"
"murderous gangs to take cowardly advantage of the honorable"
"withdrawal from Beirut of the heroic Palestinian leaders and fighters"
"a withdrawal designed precisely for the purpose of avoiding the"
"indiscriminate slaughter of civilians and fall like bloodthirsty"
"savages on the defenseless Palestinian camps. In doing so they relied"
"on the collaboration of Israel, which had responsibility and which"
"set the scene for them and facilitated the carrying out of the"
"slaughter. Hitler would have had much to learn from the madness of"
"Messrs. Begin and Sharon."
"HO. The Zionist genocide in Beirut is the direct result of the United"
"States Government's policy of force, violence and oppression. Nobody"
"has failed to notice the direct connection and manifest complicity"
"between the crimes committed in Lebanon and the continual United"
"States vetoes in the Security Council, which have convinced the"
"criminal Tel Aviv authorities that they are immune to any political"
"or moral limitations that the United Nations should have placed upon"
"them a long time ago."
"In his denunciation of this situation to the United Nations contained"
"in a letter addressed to the Secretary General, Fidel Castro,"
"President of the Council of State of the Republic of Cuba and"
"Chairman of the non aligned movement, asked:"
"How long can mankind and all decent and sensible Governments endure"
"this brutal and merciless genocide? What new horrors will be"
"necessary before the aggressors are stopped and their bloody hands"
"stayed? Is not this proof that Israel's rulers are preparing to"
"continue, in defiance of all, to eliminate the Palestinian people,"
"annihilate the patriotic Lebanese resistance and extend their"
"aggression to other Arab States?"
"In the name of the non aligned movement, whose indignation I voice;"
"in the name of the Cuban people, whose feelings of grief and staunch"
"solidarity I represent, I join in the universal demand that the"
"murderers and those who set the tragic scene for them and facilitated"
"this abominable action be punished. It is indispensable that there be"
"at least a political and moral exemplary sanction of all those guilty"
"of the Beirut crime. For crimes against humanity such as this, for a"
"murderous and racist philosophy such as that which motivated these"
"deeds, the criminals at Nuremberg were seated in the dock and sent to"
"the gallows."
"The time has come for the United Nations to act, and only exemplary,"
"prompt and energetic punishment of those who committed the genocide"
"and their accomplices will save the honor and respectability of our"
"institution before the coming generations and the inexorable judgment"
"of history."
"The Palestinian leaders and fighters have withdrawn honorably from"
"Beirut, but only to continue the fight for the Palestinian people's"
"inalienable rights until victory is won."
"Mr. President, we should like to say how pleased we are that you, Mr."
"Hollai, an outstanding son of the heroic Hungarian people, are"
"presiding over this thirty seventh session of the General Assembly."
"We should also like to express our appreciation for the exemplary"
"work done by the former President of the General Assembly, our friend"
"Ismat Kittani. We greet the Secretary General, the first Latin"
"American to occupy such a high post of responsibility, Mr. Javier"
"Perez de Cuellar, for his tenacious efforts aimed at strengthening"
"and reinforcing the Organization. We are living in a world"
"characterized by a sharpening of tension in international relations,"
"due to the acts of provocation and the policies of arms buildup and"
"nuclear blackmail advocated by United States imperialism. The danger"
"of a nuclear war that would wipe out all the work of mankind grows"
"constantly and hangs like an ominous cloud over man's right to live"
"in peace."
"All attempts to hide from the peoples the real consequences of a"
"nuclear conflict and make them believe that such a conflict could be"
"limited to a specific geographic area or instil in them the idea that"
"it is feasible to start such a war with the possibility that some"
"Power may emerge victorious, is exceedingly dangerous and"
"incompatible with the vital interests of all mankind. Therefore, it"
"is necessary to continue mobilizing public awareness of the dangers"
"posed by nuclear war and weapons of mass destruction."
"The arms race has continued its upward spiral, and imperialism keeps"
"on trying to impose policies from positions of strength. In spite of"
"the fact that negotiations have started on strategic weapons, on"
"nuclear weapons in Europe and on the reduction of weapons and"
"military personnel in Central Europe, the United States shows no"
"willingness to negotiate and tries to hide its militaristic plans"
"from the world public and impose them upon its Western European"
"allies."
"The second special session of the General Assembly on disarmament,"
"held midway through this year, was an example of the lack of"
"political will of a group of States to negotiate seriously and"
"constructively to find solutions for the problems of disarmament."
"The unbridled arms race that some countries are practicing a race"
"which includes attempts to install 572 medium range missiles in"
"Europe, the production of neutron bombs and the establishment of"
"interventionist rapid deployment force constitutes a serious threat"
"to international peace and security and to mankind's very survival."
"The arms buildup policy is closely linked to the imperialists' plans"
"to impose their dictates in various parts of the world. Thus, on the"
"one hand, imperialism is obstructing the negotiations on disarmament"
"and, on the other, is encouraging and providing political and"
"military support for the reactionary forces all over the world."
"Thus, besides the concerted aggression of Israel and the United"
"States against Lebanon, other trouble spots are present in the"
"explosive Middle East."
"Unfortunately, the war between the peoples of the Islamic Republic of"
"Iran and Iraq still continues. As chairman of the non aligned"
"movement, Cuba has made tremendous efforts, together with other"
"countries, to help find a peaceful, just and honorable solution to"
"the conflict. We take this opportunity of addressing this important"
"forum to reiterate our hopes and renew our offer of services to help"
"bring the war to an end for the benefit of both peoples, of other"
"peoples in the region and to prevent the spread and worsening of the"
"conflict."
"This is also a good occasion for expressing a most energetic protest"
"against the direct and indirect aggressions which United States"
"imperialism has perpetrated against the People's Democratic Republic"
"of Yemen, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and other"
"peoples in the north of Africa engaged in peacefully building their"
"destinies."
"Concerning Namibia, the United States is ignoring Security Council"
"resolution 435 (1978) as well as General Assembly resolution 36/172"
"B, proclaiming 1982 the International Year of Mobilization for"
"Sanctions against South Africa, and is not using the means at its"
"disposal to pressure South Africa into accepting a negotiated and law"
"abiding solution based on the relevant resolutions of the Security"
"Council and the General Assembly. In fact, Washington is playing the"
"game of Pretoria which seeks to rob the Namibian people of their"
"victory and true independence."
"The racist regime of South Africa and its United States allies are"
"insisting on linking Namibia's independence to the presence of the"
"Cuban forces in Angola as an essential prerequisite for arriving at a"
"negotiated solution. But they will not be able to hide the truth of"
"the fact that Angola's independence, territorial integrity and"
"sovereignty have made and are making an important contribution to"
"Namibia's independence. The Cuban internationalist fighters went to"
"Angola to help defend Angola's independence and prevent the spread of"
"the apartheid regime beyond the borders of Namibia; for no other"
"reason."
"If the Yankee imperialists and partners of the Apartheid regime have"
"been forced to talk about the independence of Namibia, it has been"
"because of the armed struggle of the heroic sons of the people of"
"Namibia, because of the actions headed by SWAPO and because they have"
"failed in their attempts to prevent the independence of Angola."
"In 1976, the Governments of Angola and Cuba decided to begin"
"withdrawing the Cuban military forces that were in Angola and the"
"number of Cuban personnel was reduced by more than one third. New"
"threats against Angola interrupted this process and even made"
"necessary the return of new forces to replace those which had already"
"left the noble Angolan soil. Other aggressions; by South Africa"
"frustrated similar attempts another occasions. Now, when the racist"
"troops of the Pretoria regime have been occupying a part of the"
"territory of southern Angola for more than a year and are threatening"
"to invade other provinces, the United States Government seeks to"
"present a demand that the Cuban forces should  withdrawn from Angola"
"as a condition, a prerequisite, for the withdrawal of South   African"
"troops from Namibia, as something that would contribute to Namibia's"
"independence."
NA
"That is why the front line States, at their recent meeting in Lusaka,"
"resolved categorically to reject any attempt to tie the Cuban"
"presence in Angola to the process of decolonization in Namibia,"
"reaffirming in their final declaration that that matter concerned"
"only the Governments of Angola and Cuba."
"Cuba and Angola stated in February this year that Cuban military co"
"operation with Angola constituted an absolutely sovereign and"
"legitimate act by the two countries and as a result was completely"
"unrelated to the problem of Namibia. They also pointed out that if"
"the selfless struggle waged by SWAPO, the sole legitimate"
"representative of the Namibian people, and the demands of the"
"international community succeeded in bringing about a real solution"
"to the problem of Namibia, based on strict compliance with Security"
"Council resolution 435 (1978), and it resulted in truly independent"
"rule and to the total withdrawal of the South African occupation"
"troops to the other side of the Orange River, which would"
"considerably reduce the danger of aggression against Angola, then the"
"Angolan and Cuban Governments would consider the renewal of the"
"implementation of the programme for the gradual withdrawal of the"
"Cuban force within a period of time determined by the two Governments."
"We can consequently reaffirm here, in the General Assembly that when"
"the Governments of Angola and Cuba so determine, the withdrawal of"
"the Cuban forces stationed on Angolan territory will be effected by"
"virtue of the sovereign decision of the Government of the People's"
"Republic of Angola once all or any possibility of an attack by an"
"armed invading force has disappeared. In this regard, the Government"
"of Cuba reiterates that it will unhesitatingly respect any decision"
"that the sovereign Government of Angola makes concerning the"
"withdrawal of those forces."
"In view of the evident closing of options for negotiation, SWAPO, the"
"sole and legitimate representative of the Namibian people, has the"
"right to continue the armed struggle to achieve Namibia's"
"independence, with full respect for its territorial integrity,"
"including Walvis Bay, and without the presence of South African"
"troops on its soil."
"The struggle of the African peoples will inexorably bring to an end"
"the vestiges of colonialism and racism on that continent. The"
"Pretoria regime knows that historically it is doomed. The growing"
"rebelliousness of the black South African masses, led by the African"
"National Congress, shows that the exploited majority is advancing"
"inexorably towards the liquidation of the power of the exploiting"
"white minority. We endorse the decisions to support the ANC adopted"
"by the heads of State at the frontline States at their Maputo meeting"
"in March this year."
NA
"In Latin America, after nearly a century of imperialist domination,"
"the situation could not be more hopeless for tens of millions of"
"human beings subjected to the most dreadful poverty. Compulsory"
"witnesses of the profits of the local oligarchies and of the"
"transnational corporations, the peoples of Latin America will be"
"carrying on their shoulders a foreign debt which, by the end of this"
"year, will reach the astronomical figure of $300 billion, without"
"counting the $30 billion they will have to pay annually in interest."
"The indices that measure the living standards of the popular sectors"
"in the vast majority of the countries in our region are falling"
"alarmingly without any restraint. It is precisely this state of"
"permanent inequality that is the main cause of the social revolt that"
"is shaking Central America today."
"Blinded by stupidity and lack of realism, Mr. Reagan's Administration"
"has rejected dialogue and a negotiated political solution in this"
"explosive area and is preparing the conditions for an armed"
"intervention that would prevent a revolutionary triumph in El"
"Salvador and drown the Nicaraguan revolution in blood. Such is the"
"spirit of the Symons Amendment, passed recently by the United States"
"Senate, preparing public opinion for the United States President's"
"use of all means, including the use of troops, to oppose an alleged"
"Cuban threat in Latin America."
"The United States Government is engaged in using the armed forces of"
"Honduras as a spearhead against Nicaragua and the Salvadorian"
"patriots, with the aim of legalizing a probable direct intervention"
"by United States forces. The entry of Honduran army personnel into El"
"Salvador and of former Somoza supporters into Nicaragua from camps in"
"Honduras unquestionably means dangerous and definitive steps towards"
"the spreading of armed conflict throughout the Central American region"
"Thus far the Reagan Administration has not contributed to the moves"
"directed to apolitical solution to the tensions in the region. A few"
"days ago, President Lopez Portillo of Mexico and President Herrera"
"Campinas of Venezuela made new proposals which Cuba hopes will"
"produce positive results."
"If the United States intervenes militarily in El Salvador or"
"Nicaragua, it would lead to the appearance of a new Viet Nam in"
"Central America, because the peoples of Farabundo Marti and Augusto"
"Cesar Sandino will defend their national independence and their right"
"to be Ate until they defeat their enemies."
"President Fidel Castro pointed out in the letter he sent to Jose"
"Lopez Portillo, President of Mexico, in February this year that:"
"If the Government of the United States the source of all the problems"
"which affect Latin America and the Caribbean today pledges not to"
"attack its neighbors, if it ceases its constant threats, if it stops"
"using its weapons and finances to back genocidal regimes and if it"
"puts an end to its subversive activities, all these being acts which"
"have absolutely no legitimacy, Cuba is willing to co operate in the"
"noble efforts you outlined in Managua to bring about the atmosphere"
"of peace, mutual respect and necessary change in the region, to which"
"we also aspire."
"Cuba today reiterates its full support for Argentine sovereignty over"
"the Malvinas Islands. Hard, concrete, stubborn facts have"
"convincingly shown who is who in our continent. When forced to show"
"its true colors the United States, the self appointed arch  defender"
"of Latin America and dedicated architect of the Rio Treaty and of the"
"myth of hemispheric unity against dark extra continental forces,"
"dropped its so called pan American vocation and shamelessly joined"
"forces with England to fall, as Marti would say, with so much greater"
"force on our Latin American lands. At the moment of truth, the"
"institutions built on hypocrisy went down in the Atlantic without the"
"dignity of the crew members of the General."
"Now, a new awakening of Latin American awareness is the order of the"
"day; a deepening of anti imperialist feeling is spreading through our"
"continent; the peoples are learning daily from history in the making,"
"from the blows they receive and from the experience they acquire; and"
"no propaganda, however sophisticated or subtle, can change or twist"
"the historical positions taken on the facts relating to the Malvinas."
"Cuba also reiterates its unswerving support for the legitimate"
"struggle that the fraternal people of Puerto Rico are waging to"
"attain full independence and sovereignty. Nothing can keep the"
"peoples from travelling the destined path of their history; like it"
"or not, one day the free Latin American people of Puerto Rico will"
"themselves sing the beloved anthem of their homeland and they"
"themselves will raise their flag with the lone star, free of"
"hypocritical trusteeships and master of their destiny. There will"
"remain in our continent tyrannies that every day spill blood on the"
"road that will lead these peoples to the freedom to which they are"
"and for which they are waging an exemplary fight."
"We reiterate our firm solidarity with heroic Grenada, which, with"
"unparalleled efforts, is laying the foundations for a new exemplary"
"resistance against the imperialists' attempts to destabilize its"
"economy, subvert domestic interest and frustrate the revolutionary"
"process rooted in that Caribbean island."
"Cuba supports the aspirations and desires of the Panamanian"
"Government and people in their struggle for implementation of the"
"Canal agreements."
"We support the right of Bolivia in its historical and just claim to"
"recover its outlet to the sea."
"Cuba's position is well known on the subject of the negotiated"
"settlement of disputes. We hope that, in the spirit of the necessary"
"strengthening of the relations among the peoples of our continent,"
"the differences over the border limits between Guyana and Venezuela"
"will be settled peacefully, by means of mutually accepted formulas."
"Cuba supports the independence, territorial integrity and non"
"alignment of Belize."
"We must also struggle to guarantee peace and stability in South East"
"Asia. The Sixth Conference of Indo Chinese Foreign Ministers was held"
"in July this year; it announced that a summit meeting of those three"
"countries would be held in December and that the withdrawal of a"
"number of Vietnamese troops from the territory of the People's"
"Republic of Kampuchea had been initiated in late July. This shows the"
"three countries' good will in trying to ease the tension in the"
"region through political means. A climate of understanding, mutual"
"respect and security must prevail in South East Asia, and the efforts"
"to begin a constructive dialogue between the parties in conflict"
"should continue."
"My delegation reiterates its support for the legitimate aspiration of"
"the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to bring about the peaceful"
"reunification of its homeland for which it is absolutely necessary"
"that interference in its internal affairs should cease and that the"
"United States forces of intervention withdraw from the southern part"
"of the Korean peninsula."
"We support the Sahraoui Arab Democratic Republic in its legitimate"
"rights to live in peace and take its rightful place among independent"
"States. We support the aspirations of the Comoros to regain their"
"sovereignty over Mayotte, the restitution of Madagascar's rights over"
"the Malagasy Islands of Gloheuses, Juande Nova, Europa and Bassas da"
"India, and the just claim of Mauritius to recover Diego Garcia island."
"The United States continues to increase its presence in the Indian"
"Ocean and to enlarge its military installations in the area, as is"
"the case with the Diego Garcia base, and to block the holding of a"
"conference for making the Indian Ocean a zone of peace. This policy"
"is detrimental to security in the region and exacerbates tensions by"
"constituting a threat to the Governments that are striving to lend"
"their national interests."
"We support the Cypriot people's sustained efforts to preserve its"
"independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity in a united and"
"non aligned republic."
"The efforts and actions that various agencies and the international"
"community are carrying out with regard to the peoples' legitimate"
"demand for a stable, lasting peace cannot be consolidated if we do"
"not devote ourselves seriously and frankly to the constitution and"
"practice of a new system of international relations whose main aspect"
"is the implementation of a fair and equitable new international"
"economic order that does away with the abysmal differences between"
"the poor and the rich countries. This is not a question of alms or"
"privileges; we demand the help of the developed countries so that, by"
"combining our efforts, we may eliminate the differences that separate"
"us."
"133. The insistence on dealing from positions of strength, from"
"positions of military superiority, is leading the present Republican"
"Administration in the United States to plan increases in its military"
"budget for l983 that come to the astronomical sum of more than $260"
"billion. By 1986 military spending will exceed $372 billion, or 35.2"
"per cent of the total United States budget. This harmful trend of the"
"United States Government towards increasing its military spending at"
"an explosive rate will for other States to increase their budgets for"
"the defense of their territories."
"154. The world is sitting on a powder keg, without any guarantees of"
"security, and the danger increases when the means for exploding it"
"are in irresponsible hands, as unscrupulous as those that led the"
"world of the conflagration of the 1940s. Therefore the struggle for"
"peace is no mere slogan of enlightened forums or Sunday clubs; it is"
"a pressing necessity for the survival of all mankind. We mean by that"
"a peace that is equal for all, in whatever part of the globe they may"
"be. We are constantly striving for those aims, and guided by those"
"criteria. Cuba has made the struggle for peace a fundamental part of"
"its Constitution, and the struggle to preserve peace, to contribute"
"to easing the hotbeds of tension and to prevent the worsening of the"
"international situation is one of the main elements of our"
"international action."
"The preservation of peace and the struggle for development are"
"component elements of a single ideal, for what peace can there be without"
"development? What peace can there be when the people are hungry and"
"have no pillow to lessen the weariness of their despair? What peace"
"can there be when their children are hungry, and there is no light in"
"their eyes and no future before them?"
"The countries belonging to the non aligned movement and all the other"
"underdeveloped countries have constantly urged that the preservation"
"of peace and the pursuit of development should be aims to be sought"
"simultaneously. We recall that the 1979 Ministerial Meeting of the"
"Group of 77 in Arusha, in the United Republic of Tanzania, stated its"
"conviction that real peace was not merely the absence of war but"
"should also establish the conditions for political freedom, sustained"
"and accelerated development for the developing countries and the"
"promotion of the methodical development of the world."
"Today the situation is much more serious than it was then."
"Imperialism's aggressive, expansionist and exploitative posture has"
"worsened. The recent events in Lebanon, the conflict in the South"
"Atlantic and continual threats of aggression and armed intervention"
"in the Caribbean have been dangerously added to the use of economic"
"pressures as a weapon of political coercion against the"
"underdeveloped countries that aspire to an independent, honorable"
"life and seek the path of development. At the same time, we note with"
"alarm that never before has the situation of the third world"
"countries been so desperate as it is today, when inflation, monetary"
"instability, blatant protectionism on the part of the industrialized"
"countries, unparalleled indebtedness and the systematic lowering of"
"the prices the third world countries get for their primary"
"commodities are not only endangering their real prospects for"
"advancing towards development within a more or less acceptable time"
"span but posing an immediate threat to the lives of millions of"
"people and the very future of dozens of nations."
"The United States is maintaining an attitude of clear opposition to"
"the launching of the global negotiations, which are an important"
"instrument for enabling the international community to face in an"
"appropriate manner the serious problems of the world economy."
"Cuba supports the efforts exerted by the Group of 77 to obtain the"
"launching of global negotiations, which would spur the development of"
"the backward countries, but would also be an effective means of"
"enabling the developing economies to emerge from the constant"
"recession in which they have been for several years."
"Everyone knows that Cuba has always held the firm opinion that there"
"can be no development without peace and no peace without development."
"Fidel Castro has reiterated that on several occasions, including here"
"in this Hall during the thirty fourth session of the General"
"Assembly. Therefore, we call on the General Assembly to devote itself"
"to sustained hard work that will contribute to an ever greater extent"
"to making the United Nations a real participant in the process of"
"building the future of the peoples, rather than a mere spectator,"
"watching from the sidelines. Cuba has presided over the non aligned"
"movement during three years filled with complexities, tension and"
"conflicts in international relations. In the midst of the stubborn"
"struggle waged by imperialism and international reaction to paralyze"
"the action of the international agencies and to prevent the third"
"world countries from concerting their plans and positions, the non"
"aligned movement has emerged from those trials as an even more"
"united, more independent and stronger force."
"Ever since the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or Government of"
"Non Aligned Countries, held at Havana in 1979, our movement has been"
"engaged in active efforts in the most diverse spheres, developing"
"various initiatives of special significance; noteworthy among them"
"are its efforts to mediate in disputes between member countries."
"During those three years, the movement consolidated a broad programme"
"of co operation, extending the scope of co operation and exchanges of"
"views among our countries."
"Many meetings were held in the movement's various branches and"
"spheres of action. Noteworthy among its activities were the"
"extraordinary meetings of its Coordinating Bureau at the ministerial"
"level on Namibia, held in Algiers; on Palestine, held in Kuwait; and"
"on the situation in Lebanon, held recently in Cyprus; as well as the"
"Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Non Aligned Countries,"
"held at New Delhi in February 1981; the Ministerial Meeting of the"
"Coordinating Bureau held this year in Havana; and the meetings of"
"Ministers and Heads of Delegation of the non aligned countries"
"attending the sessions of the General Assembly, for the purpose of"
"coordinating actions and setting priorities among those countries."
"In spite of the obvious efforts to divide the movement and to boycott"
"the work of its organs especially its Coordinating Bureau and in"
"spite of the direct pressure brought to bear on many of its members,"
"the non aligned movement has given proof of its cohesion, maturity"
"and strength. The tireless struggle for peace, disarmament, an end to"
"the arms race, a new international economic order, respect for the"
"principle of non interference in the internal affairs of other"
"States, renunciation of the use of force in international relations"
"and solidarity with national liberation movements have been important"
"battles fought daily by the non aligned movement."
"History, as always, has made sure that deceit has been unveiled."
"Those who declared that in Cuba in 1979 the movement would be split"
"are brought face to face with today's reality: that our movement has"
"increased its dynamism, preserved its original principles and its"
"unity, and extended its action, its strength and its influence in the"
"international arena."
"Within the framework offered by the present session of the General"
"Assembly we advanced our preparations for the Seventh Conference of"
"Heads of State or Government of Non Aligned Countries, which will be"
"held at New Delhi in March of next year. Fidel Castro, Chairman of"
"the movement, has had to make special efforts to overcome the"
"obstacles that arose concerning the holding of that conference,"
"efforts that brought out the movement's capacities, cohesion and"
"unity, and the outstanding qualities and wisdom of the heads of State"
"or Government of our member countries."
"The present international situation presents enormous risks for man's"
"survival. We must tackle that situation with determination and"
"firmness: the same determination and firmness with which the heroic"
"Palestinians defended Beirut, the same determination and firmness"
"with which the Vietnamese people defeated imperialist aggression and"
"the same determination and firmness with which the courageous"
"Sahraoui fighters are waging their struggle."
"The imperialists must abandon their policy of confrontation, threats"
"and aggression. They must know that they will not succeed in"
"intimidating the peoples, which have learned now that firmness is the"
"position of principle to hold in the face of the imperialists."
"On 26 July 1982, President Fidel Castro stated that"
"We are not in favor of wars. We are in favor of peace, in favor of"
"solutions. We are well aware of the consequences a war would have for"
"the world. And the dangers really exist. We are in favor of"
"solutions, and we have said this repeatedly concerning the various"
"hotbeds of tension: solutions for the war between Iran and Iraq;"
"solutions in the Middle East; solutions in Central America, solutions"
"in Angola and in South Africa. Therefore, our attitude is not that of"
"promoting conflicts. However, we are not going to step back even half"
"an inch before the imperialist threats and aggressions not even half"
"an inch."
"10 Mr. President, you have been entrusted with the enormous responsibility of directing the proceedings of this thirty-eighth session of the General Assembly, which is taking place under exceptionally complex conditions. The fact that we know you and that you come from the beloved sister land of Panama, whose long tradition of struggle for the salvation of national sovereignty, along with its contribution to the search for peace and negotiating formulas for the long-suffering Central American region, are very well known, allows my delegation, after extending our warmest greetings to you,  express our full confidence in the success of your mission and, at the same time, to assure you that you will always be able to count on the assistance of the Cuban delegation for the success of this session."
"10We also extend greetings to our friend Mr. Imre Hollai, President of the General Assembly during its thirty-seventh session."
"10We welcome the admission to the United Nations of another Latin American and Caribbean State, Saint Christopher and Nevis."
"10In a review of the long list of very important matters to be discussed at this session and which command our attention, the imperative necessity of avoiding the eruption of a confrontation that could bring to an end the very existence of mankind must be given the highest priority."
"10Never since the end of the Second World War has the international situation shown signs of such extreme peril, nor has mankind been so close to nuclear apocalypse. For this reason, I believe we all agree that once again, but with greater courage and dedication, we must endeavour to ensure that our deliberations and subsequent decisions lead to progress in the complicated and difficult process of disarmament and to the strengthening of the peace and security which our peoples demand in order to devote themselves to the noble effort of economic and social development."
"10Imperialist intransigence and the Reagan Administration's zest for supremacy and power, which is expressed on a daily basis in its obsolete cold-war rhetoric and gunboat policies, constitute the major obstacle faced by the international community in eliminating the dangerous climate in which we currently live."
"10For our part, we are fully aware of the fact that, notwithstanding the decisive role played by the international community and the peace movement throughout the world, the greatest responsibility for adopting disarmament measures ultimately rests with the nuclear Powers. Essentially, however, the main responsibility rests with the two mightiest Powersand we all know exactly who complicates the dangerous present situation and prevents its being overcome."
"10The Government of the United States, dragging along its allies in NATO, considerably increases its war budget, extending the arms race to new horizons. It unilaterally interrupts important negotiations on specific questions, while blocking others it cannot stop because of the high political price attached to them; and at the same time it does everything possible to stifle the work of the international organ of negotiation, the Committee on Disarmament."
"10We must add that besides dashing the hopes embodied in the SALT II agreements, an attempt is now being made to destroy the limited legal order thus far achieved on the question of disarmament by alleging false violations or breaches of promise or the fallacious intention of strengthening them with new provisions regarding verification."
"10It is not enough for Mr. Reagan and his advisers to enjoy the destructive potential of the United States with all its weaponsnuclear or othernor is it enough for them to extend the threatening language of weapons to other areas of our natural habitat. They are not at all interested in considering the wishes of other peoples when they station nuclear weapons and delivery systems in their territories to launch attacks on neighbouring borders, thus exposing them to a devastating riposte."
"11The United States Government refuses to commit itself not to be the first to use nuclear weapons; it does not accept the offer of a mutual freeze of existing nuclear arsenals, nor of their qualitative and quantitative development; it turns a deaf ear to the establishment of a moratorium on nuclear-weapon tests; it develops and produces lethal binary chemical weapons; it develops the neutron bomb; it reinforces old silos to deploy the aggressive strategic MX missilesall of which is done without"
"abandoning the continuous build-up of its submarines, ships, aircraft, tanks, guns and other instruments of aggression and destruction."
"11NATO'S United States-inspired plans to install 572 medium-range missiles in Europe are particularly serious. This decision constitutes an extremely dangerous, adventurist and grave step which threatens to bring the world to the brink of war."
"11Those of us who follow attentively and anxiously the development of negotiations being conducted on that subject at Geneva clearly assess the delaying tactics on the part of the United States, which, juggling deceitful options for propaganda purposes, vainly pursues unilateral concessions which would enable it to obtain advantages and establish its military superiority, thus upsetting the present balance. The international community represented at the United Nations must, as a matter of urgency, demand seriously and responsibly the results it expects from Geneva and save the old continent of Europe from the serious threat that hovers over it."
"11The ground on which we stand and the seas that surround us are no longer enough for the United States. It is now dangerously aiming at outer space, sending up space weaponry with which it dreams of imposing its supremacy, power and law on the whole world."
"11We must pool our efforts to defend the first right of mankind: the right to live."
"11It is necessary to strive to ease the present climate of tension and not to despair in the search for ways and means leading to agreements which, on the basis of parity and equal security, would contribute to the limitation and subsequent reduction of the levels of weapons, particularly nuclear weapons."
"11The States members of the Movement of Non- Aligned Countries, meeting recently at New Delhi at the Seventh Conference of Heads of State or Government, firmly reiterated the demand of the entire international community that the arms race be halted and that disarmament agreements aimed at establishing a climate of peace embracing all regions and benefiting all peoples be adopted."
"11The will for peace of the socialist countries is an unquestionable fact, made evident by various initiatives and at times by unilateral arms limitation measures, which, as everyone knows, are only rejected by the United States, when they are not simply ignored."
"11While the world yearns for peace, the United States is moving towards war. The tragic incident of the South Korean aircraft which was sent off without any qualms to commit an act of indescribable provocation falls within the framework of the attempts to exacerbate tensions."
"11The international community is faced with the tragic case of an aircraft which violated Soviet airspace and remained for a long time over Soviet territory, ignoring the warnings issued in accordance with international guidelines, and for that reason was brought down, with the regrettable loss of 269 lives. It became known later that this was a civilian aircraft which had strayed from its normal course. We are certain that Soviet military aviation would never have fired on that aircraft, even if it was on an espionage mission, had they realized that it was a civilian airplane carrying passengers. There is no doubt that it was mistaken for one of those spy-planes which are constantly probing the borders of the Soviet Union in that zone."
"12This tragedy, about which no one can think without grief and sorrow, has been used by President Reagan and his Administration as a means of fanning international hatred and enmity and justifying the arms race and their aggressive war-mongering policies."
"12Those who are against solving the problems of Central America through negotiated non-military solutions and whose brutal international policy supports the Salvadorian regime which has caused tens of thousands of deaths among the civilian population of El Salvador in recent years; those who see fit to disrupt the process of social change in Nicaragua, even if to do this they must carry out direct or indirect military intervention against that country; those who trained, instigated and supported the individuals who then committed a barbarous act of sabotage against a Cuban civilian aircraft over Barbados; those who stood by in silent complicity when, in February 1973, Israel shot down a Libyan passenger aircraft, causing 108 deaths, over Egyptian territory occupied by force; those who encouraged the Israeli invasion of Lebanon and must share responsibility for the genocidal acts which, a little over a year ago, left thousands dead in the Palestinian camps of Sabra and Shatila; those who support the South African racists in their illegal occupation of Namibia and their aggression against Angola and the front-line States, which have cost tens of"
"12We believe that collective international measures should be taken to prevent tragedies such as this. We are all duty-bound to adopt codes of conduct forbidding the employment of civil aircraft in espionage activities. The use of incidents of this kind further to foment international hatred, justify armament and aggression and create a climate conducive to war rather than peace is wholly unacceptable."
"12The latest in the long list of provocative actions undertaken by the United States Government against the Soviet Union, using the South Korean aircraft incident as a pretext, is the preventing of the Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union from participating in this session of the General Assembly. To this act of provocation against the respected representative of one of the permanent members of the Security Council they have added proof of their disregard of their obligations as the United Nations host country."
"12If peaceful existence on our planet is to be achieved it is of paramount importance that the international situation be improved by eliminating current insecurities and restoring a climate of trust and detente in international relations."
"12The peoples demand an end to the arms race and the abandonment of the philosophy of military supremacy and the endless accumulation of weapons, which can lead only to the peace of the graveyard."
"12Today, perhaps more than ever before, mankind demands that decisions be made and agreements adopted which will pave the way to security, peace and development."
NA
"12As part of these efforts we include support for the United Nations and for the activities of the Secretary- General. It is well known that those who work against peace do not conceal their contempt for the Organization. We believe that the highest priority should be given to continuing action to attain the principles and objectives of the Charter and to strengthen the broadest international co-operation within the framework of the United Nations."
"12The Movement of Non-Aligned Countries is striving for peace and development and for the elimination of colonialism, neo-colonialism, imperialism, Zionism, racism, apartheid and every form of exploitation and domination. Its successful seventh summit conference was a new step forward in terms of unity and cohesion and made a contribution through its decisions to the achievement of those goals."
"12On the other hand, the economic crisis which in recent years has severely affected the economies of the capitalist world continues to make its effects felt increasingly in the countries of the so-called third world. The reduction in real terms of the transfer of resources for development; the unprecedented and increasing foreign debt, for which there seems to be no likelihood of a reasonable short-term remedy; the even greater deterioration in the terms of trade; monetary instability; the transnational corporations' activities and plundering; and the growing difficulties faced by underdeveloped countries in gaining access to sources of funds, food and technology continue to characterize the present state of international economic relations. Only the genuine restructuring of these relations, without unnecessary delay and through a comprehensive process of co-operation, can provide a true long-term solution of these serious and potentially dangerous problems facing the world today."
"13The proceedings and results of the important international meetings held this year have shown the determination of the underdeveloped countries to find solutions likely to reactivate the international process of economic co-operation. Regrettably, the reactions of the industrialized capitalist countries to their proposals have not permitted the resumption of a truly significant process of international economic negotiations aimed at restructuring international economic relations to provide for the effective establishment of a new international economic order, or, in the shorter term, taking measures immediately for the solution of the most urgent economic problems of the so-called third world. In short, we are witnessing the lowest point in international co-operation: economic co-operation is deteriorating daily, as are the prices of the main exports of our underdeveloped countries. For this reason, just as we must devote ourselves to the search for solutions to the world economic crisis, we must also devote all of our efforts towards rapidly overcoming the crisis in international economic co-operation."
"13The global negotiations continue to be the most important question before the General Assembly in the sphere of international economic negotiations. Consequently, the talks designed to lead to their speedy implementation must be given momentum and direction so that they can begin in 1984 in a comprehensive, interrelated and coherent manner, in keeping with the proposals of the Seventh Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries."
"13Cuba's positions of principle on the most urgent, serious and important problems of international relations are known. On every occasion the voice of our people has been clear in one way or another. Fighters for freedom and independence in any part of the world have never lacked our word of encouragement. Those who face oppression, discrimination and exploitation have never lacked our most active solidarity. Those who uphold the highest ideals of their peoples have never lacked the ready warmth of the Cuban revolution. Our word of encouragement, our friendly hand, our active solidarity, our fraternal warmth will never be lacking for all those, whether in Government or in opposition, whether in power or in the struggle against oppression, who confront the joint forces of reaction, colonialism, neo-colonialism, racismincluding zionismapartheid and imperialism."
"13From this forum of nations the Cuban people salute the Sandinist soldiers who defend with honour the sacred soil of their land; the Salvadoran fighters who with exemplary courage confront imperialist Power, displaying an extraordinary fighting capacity; the Guatemalan patriots struggling for more than 20 years against the genocidal regime imposed by the United States since 1954; the heroic and brave people of Grenada who face with determination all imperialist attempts to subvert their internal order and halt the powerful development of their revolutionary process. We also ratify our solidarity with Suriname, which is still being subjected to many destabilizing acts of aggression by the United States to frustrate the process of social change and national liberation that has begun in that country."
"13The Cuban delegation reiterates its unflagging support for the inalienable right of the fraternal people of Puerto Rico to self-determination and independence. On some not-too-distant day, Puerto Rico, freed from colonial ties, will join the group of independent and sovereign countries and, as such, will occupy its proper seat in this world Organization."
"13We also support the aspirations of the Government and people of Panama in their struggle for the fulfilment of the Canal treaties. We support the historic and just demand of Bolivia to regain access to the sea. We support the independence, territorial integrity and non-alignment of Belize. In accordance with its position of support for a negotiated solution of conflicts, and within that framework, Cuba is in favour of a peaceful solution of the border disputes between Guyana and Venezuela. Similarly, we hope that, in conformity with the General Assembly's resolutions, negotiations can be started immediately between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Argentine Republic to restore the Malvinas, South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands to Argentina. We also express our deep concern over the British Government's decision to build a military base in the Malvinas, which not only hinders negotiations on the decolonization of the islands but also adds unnecessary tensions to the region. We salute the valiant Chilean people who are today unanimously rising up against fascist tyranny. We also salute all the peoples of the"
"13We salute the efforts to guarantee peace and stability in South-East Asia, and we urge continued efforts to achieve that important goal. A spirit of mutual understanding and respect conducive to a climate of security must prevail in the region of South-West Asia also, and efforts to pursue a constructive dialogue between the parties in conflict must also be continued."
"13The Cuban delegation renews its support for the just cause of the People's Democratic Republic of Korea in its search for the peaceful reunification of that country and calls for an end to interference in its internal affairs and the withdrawal of the interventionist United States forces from the south of the Korean peninsula."
NA
"13We support the aspiration of the Comoros to recover its sovereignty over Mayotte. We support the restitution to Madagascar of its rights over the Malagasy Islands of Glorieuses, Juan de Nova, Europa and Bassas da India, and the just demand of Mauritius to recover the island of Diego Garcia. We support the sustained efforts of the people of Cyprus to preserve its independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity in a united and non-aligned republic."
"13Cuba wishes to repeat once again its appeal to the Governments of Iraq and Iran to end the war that for more than three years has been inflicting enormous loss of life and of all kinds of resources on their peoples and that constitutes a threat to international peace and security."
"14We salute all peoples who, in other continents, are also struggling for their independence against imperialism and reaction. We salute the brave Saharan fighters for their legitimate right to live in peace and to occupy their rightful place among the independent States. We salute our dear Palestinian friends who, rallying around the PLO, their sole and legitimate representative, firmly hold high the banner of their just struggle. We salute the brave patriots of Namibia under the leadership of SWAPO, their sole and legitimate representative. We salute the stoic and dauntless fighters of South Africa led by the ANC. We salute all the front-line States, which are resisting with determination the pressures, threats and attacks of the racists and imperialists. We salute the Arab States, permanent victims of imperialist and Zionist aggression. We salute the determined people of Libya, who face the threats and provocations of imperialism with serenity and resolve."
"14The current state of affairs in Central America has mobilized broad sectors of world public opinion. The ever-increasing concern over an irreversible escalation on the part of the United States is fully grounded."
"14The countries of the Contadora Group have made enormous efforts in the quest for a negotiated settlement of the explosive situation in that region. At its summit meeting at Cancun last July, the Contadora Group- made up of Mexico, Venezuela, Colombia and Panama appealed to the Central American countries, as well as to the United States and Cuba, for co-operation and support in the quest for a political solution."
"14Nicaragua immediately responded to that appeal with a six-point programme, which includes its readiness to initiate multilateral negotiations in the presence of the Contadora Group and to sign a non-aggression pact with Honduras, and its willingness to reach an agreement regarding El Salvador that would include the cessation of all arms supplies to both sides."
"14The Farabundo Marti Front for National LiberationRevolutionary Democratic Front reiterated its readiness to seek, through dialogue, channels of negotiation which would lead to peace in El Salvador. At the beginning of September it proposed the installation of a new Government, representative of all forces, which would be responsible for bringing about the conditions required to advance a comprehensive process of political solutions to the Salvadorian conflict."
"14Cuba also promptly and clearly responded to the summons by the presidents of the Contadora Group and let it be known that it unhesitatingly supports the efforts to bring about a just and negotiated settlement of the problems in Central America."
"14The United States, for its part, continued its brutal escalation clearly designed to destroy the Nicaraguan revolution, dismember the Salvadorian revolutionary movement and safeguard its full imperialist domination in the region. Under the pretext of joint military manoeuvres with other countries of the area, the duration of which has no parallel in history, the United States Government is attempting to create an intimidating situation which constitutes a real and dangerous intervention in the area and irrefutable proof of its aggressive militarist policy. Such an interventionist step taken by the United States under the pretext of military manoeuvres reminds us of the criminal actions of the military forces of that Power in the Lebanese conflict."
"14Nicaragua finds itself virtually blockaded, surrounded by military bases, troops, shipsincluding aircraft carriers from the Mediterraneanand fighter planes."
"14At this moment an unabashed and virulent aggression is being launched against Nicaragua from bases in Honduran territory. Thousands of former Somozist guards, drilled, trained and advised by American officers, are harassing the sacred soil of Sandino's land, cruelly assassinating the civilian population. Time and again they penetrate Nicaraguan territory and are repeatedly beaten back by the armed forces and Sandinist militias, fleeing terrified to the sanctuary provided by the immunity of the Honduran border. The Sandinist combatants have not allowed themselves to be dragged into a provocation and have respected the borders of their neighbours with the conscientiousness and zeal with which they would want their own respected."
"14Honduras finds itself under virtual United States military occupation, illustrated by the adoption of decisions on the entry and presence of United States troops in that country, without the so-called Honduran President or Congress being informed. The Green Berets are running a Honduran army infantry centre under construction in the Pacific port of San Lorenzo. In addition, 600 members of the Corps of Engineers and Marines are engaged in the construction of new facilities, including a landing strip near the Nicaraguan border. In mid-September 1,000 new Salvadorian soldiers reached Tegucigalpa en route to the United States base at Puerto Castilla on the Honduran Atlantic coast. Previously 1,200 were trained at the Regional Military Training and Security Centre. Furthermore, the United States has more than a thousand experts in Honduras, of whom 950 form the logistical support contingent of Palmerola Air Base at Comayagua, in the centre of the country."
"15In the same way, Guatemala is becoming a possible springboard for Yankee military intervention in the area. United States and Israeli military aid to Guatemala is destined to strengthen the army in its effort to annihilate the Guatemalan revolutionary movement and to prepare it for the eventual intervention in El Salvador and Nicaragua."
"15American Government circles are obsessed with the idea that the imposition of a military solution to the conflict in Central America is possible and advisable. Under the feeble pretext of preserving the  third border , they are sliding down a slope that will plunge them into a quagmire, but what else can be expected of those who still think in terms of  spheres of influence  and endorse the feasibility of a  limited nuclear war ? Obsessed with creating a climate of terror and insecurity in Nicaragua in order to destroy the revolution and attack the national liberation movement in the area, the Reagan Administration may reproduce a new Viet Nam in America itself."
"15Peace-loving governments, the peoples of the world and those forces that struggle for international security and peaceful coexistence are called upon to make"
"every effort to prevent the intensification and spread of this conflagration."
"15A war of larger dimensions in Central America would only add pain to pain and misery to poverty, but it will never mean victory for the imperialists. We therefore support the request that the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session devote special attention to  the question of Central Americathreats to peace, sovereignty and the exercise by the Central American peoples of the right to self-determination and peace initiatives , as stated by the Co-ordinator of the Junta of the Government of National Reconstruction, commander of the revolution Daniel Ortega Saavedra, in his address to the Assembly ."
"15History shows us that in the long run force has never been able to prevent the triumph of freedom, social justice and sovereignty of the peoples. Our President, Fidel Castro, was unquestionably right when he recently said that  A truly revolutionary and patriotic people may be physically wiped from the face of the earth, but it can never be conquered ."
"15History has also shown that fire will be met with fire, violence with violence, and that nothing and no one will be able to retard the progress of peoples towards their legitimate and true independence. Nevertheless, this is not the only road that our people are obliged to travel, nor is this always the price that they must necessarily pay for their freedom."
"15I wish to avail myself of the opportunity offered by my presence at this important international forum to reiterate on behalf of our Government and people Cuba's positions with respect to the Central American situation. Cuba advocates a proper and honourable solution based on mutual commitments. Neither intimidation, force of arms, blackmail, pressure, nor a vain hope of surrender and concessions will pave the way to a lasting and stable solution. A solution based on the bludgeon and on contempt for the most fundamental principles cannot be imposed on Nicaragua, nor can an unfavourable outcome of the conflict be imposed on the Salvadorian revolutionaries. Methods which ignore, evade or damage the primary interests of the Salvadorian revolutionary movement cannot be applied, nor can Nicaraguan interests be ignored."
"15Peace cannot be achieved or coexistence and security in the region activated on the basis of forcing one of the parties to suffer humiliation."
"15We support the spirit and proposals of the Contadora Group to find a political solution based on respect for the sovereignty of peoples and on non-intervention in the internal affairs of States. Indeed, we wish to draw attention to the fact that a political solution in Central America cannot be achieved unless a peaceful solution is found to the existing situation in El Salvador."
"15The problem in El Salvador today constitutes the crux of the regional conflict. The present state of insurgency in El Salvador is rooted in the centuries-old exploitation by colonialism, neo-colonialism and imperialism. Under the able leadership of their legitimate representative, the FMLN-FDR, the people are waging a tenacious fight against the genocidal regime already marked by infamy and ignominy."
"16The situation in El Salvador cannot be even remotely compared with that in Nicaragua, which from land, sea and air is being subjected to various forms of joint aggression by Yankee imperialism and its lackeys. A dirty  secret war  is being waged against Nicaragua which, although becoming dirtier every day, is each day becoming less secret. There is no internal conflict or civil war in Nicaragua, but external aggression aimed at destabilizing the process of national reconstruction and preventing the consolidation of the Sandinist revolution."
"16Cuba, I repeat, supports the Contadora Group's efforts and is prepared to co-operate in every way it can in the quest for an equitable and proper political solution."
"16With that in mind, I should like to quote the following words of Fidel Castro from an informal talk with a group of American journalists:"
"I agree with Contadora's proposal to seek a political solution based on respect for the sovereignty of States and on non-intervention in the internal affairs of States."
"He added:"
"It is not precisely a question of concessions; it is a question of seeking an agreement involving commitments by all parties, and in that sense we are sincerely prepared to assume such commitments. We cannot dictate a formula. I think that those who are directly involved in the conflicts are the ones that have to define a formula to reach an agreement. We would then support such a formula."
"16That is Cuba's position. The path to a peaceful solution of the Central American conflict is still open."
"16Negotiation based on mutual commitments is still possible. The search for a formula that would involve neither capitulation nor unilateral concessions is still feasible. Cuba is quite willing to contribute to progress along that path, to undertake such commitments and to support a formula for solution whereby the parties directly involved in the conflicts may reach an agreement."
"16In its dangerous attempt to reverse the course of history, Ronald Reagan's Administration stubbornly maintains a policy aimed at destabilizing the Cuban revolution."
"16This United States policy against Cuba combines diplomatic, economic and military measures which violate both the spirit and the letter of the Charter of the United Nations as well as the most elementary internationally recognized and accepted norms of coexistence between States."
"16The continuous militarization process that the United States carries out in the area of Central America and the Caribbean is also aimed at military encirclement of our country. This process includes moving additional military units towards the southern coast of the United States and strengthening those already there to unprecedented levels, in addition to the increase in United States permanent military personnel in the area, the forced militarization of the countries of the region and threatening and provocative military manoeuvres and exercises."
"16On the other hand, the self-styled defenders of air navigation safety systematically violate Cuba's airspace with flights by their SR-71 spy planes."
"16The United States also illegally occupies part of the territory of the Republic of Cuba, where against the sovereign will of our people it maintains the Guantanamo naval base."
"17The strengthening of the criminal economic and trade blockade of our country, the efforts and pressures of all kinds exerted on third countries to make them end their trade and financial relations with Cuba constitute not only a form of aggression against our people but also an insult to the sovereignty and national dignity of those countries."
"17The United States has adopted as an unchanging official policy systematic attempts to obstruct and block Cuba's participation in international organizations and"
"forums and unceasingly carries out covert and overt campaigns to harm the diplomatic relations of our country with other sovereign States."
"17In this obstinate determination to defeat the Cuban revolution, Reagan has worked hard to set up a radio broadcasting station with the aim of destabilizing our country through slander and the dissemination of false news to the Cuban people on facts about their own country. For this purpose he has used the illustrious name of Jos6 Martian affront to our apostle, who was the first Latin American to discover that the country which in 1776 the fathers of United States independence wanted to be an example of freedom had become an imperialist monster whose decaying entrails he denounced and fought. This effort is laughable but offensive. Neither the defects nor the difficulties of building socialism are ever concealed from the Cuban people, who face them with determination and enthusiasm. But that does not make Reagan's interventionism  less reprehensible nor does it diminish our resolve to reject it."
"17During the Reagan Administration the plans for blatant armed aggression against Cuba have been publicly discussed in an unprecedented manner."
"17These and other threats and measures of imperialism aimed at deviating us from our course, diverting our path and hindering our development will culminate in the most absolute and shameful defeat."
"17Our people are firm in their decision to fight off any attempt and any imperialist aggression, and nothing nor anyone will be able to prevent the impetuous progress of our socialist revolution."
"17The situation in southern Africa continues to deteriorate owing to the actions of the South African racist regime, which persists in its policy of subjecting the black South African people to the most ferocious oppression, exploitation and racial discrimination that history has ever known."
"17The contemptible regime of apartheid increases repression and terror as the patriotic and democratic movement becomes stronger and the opposition to that unjust system and the struggle for its eradication grow. The incarceration for more than 21 years of Nelson Mandela, a combatant of the ANC who has become a symbol of the struggle against racial discrimination on a world scale, is outrageous. The shameless disregard of the South African racists for General Assembly and Security Council resolutions is outrageous. They continue the tortures, massacres, executions and false suicides in South African goals. But even more outrageous is the fact that, despite repeated resolutions of the General Assembly opposing aid to the racists of Pretoria, the IMF continues to grant astronomical loans, while denying them or attempting to impose in exchange for those funds conditions detrimental to the sovereignty of Governments which struggle for a better life for their citizens. No one can deny that responsibility for this rests mainly with the Government of the United States."
"17The Government of Ronald Reagan has proclaimed the legitimacy of its strategic alliance with the racists of Pretoria, and that is the fundamental reason for the perilous situation which persists in southern Africa. We are all aware that only that alliance, accompanied by sordid delaying tactics and brutal pressures, has prevented the peaceful negotiated settlement of the Namibian problem."
"17That is why it has not yet been possible to implement Security Council resolution 435 (1978). The United States Government is primarily responsible for dashing the hopes that many had placed in the efforts of the so-called Western contact group."
"18For more than two years South African troops have been illegally occupying parts of the territory of the People's Republic of Angola, a sovereign Member State of this Organization. The international community has demanded on numerous occasions the withdrawal of the invading South African forces from Angolan territory. The international community has also repeatedly demanded that the illegal occupation of Namibia be ended. But the response from Washington and Pretoria has been the so-called theory of linkage between the independence of Namibia and the withdrawal of the Cuban internationalist forces from Angola. There is no record in history of such arrogance, cynicism or total disregard of the decisions of the Organization, which has unequivocally rejected this manoeuvre intended to perpetuate and extend the racist regime in the African continent. Cuba's position on the withdrawal of its internationalist forces from Angola is widely known and shared. The rejection of such a linkage has been reiterated by the front-line States, the Organization of African Unity, the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and the United Nations."
"18In these circumstances there is only one valid alternative: to increase our support for SWAPO as the sole legitimate representative of the Namibian people; to demand with increasing force the unconditional withdrawal of the racist forces from Angolan territory and the unrestricted implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978); to demand the cessation of all terrorist acts against the front-line countries, all acts of aggression against Mozambique, Botswana, Lesotho, Zambia and other independent African countries, which have resisted in an exemplary manner aggression of all kinds, in extremely difficult circumstances, in order to prevent the expansion of the racist dominion on the African continent."
"18Time and again the United States has impeded with its veto in the Security Council the imposition against the South African regime of the sanctions provided for in Chapter VII of the Charter. That is why now we must demand more strongly than ever that the United States Government end its policy of blackmail and deceit regarding the African peoples and fulfil the commitments it has made."
"18The Arab peoples of the Middle East are living in a very critical situation. Israel, thanks to the support it receives from the United States, has become a military Power and has unleashed a bestial policy of expansion and domination against all Arab peoples in general and of annihilation of the Palestinian people in particular."
"18Today the danger posed by lack of a solution to the complex situation prevailing in the Middle East has increased, owing to the fact that the American forces stationed on Lebanese soil under the cover provided by the so-called multinational forces have taken an active part in the fighting in Lebanon, thus making a reality of the old dream of American imperialists of penetrating and dominating the Middle East."
"18Lebanon, which was the target of aggression by the Israeli hordes that are still present in its territory, is now also the target of direct aggression by the United States. The combined forces of zionism and Yankee imperialism will not be able to crush the independent spirit of the Lebanese patriots who are now defending their soil from external aggression. Some day, sooner rather, than later, Lebanon will be able to exercise its full rights as a free and sovereign nation."
NA
"18We do not doubt that the Assembly will try to set in motion the machinery necessary for reaching a just and lasting solution of the Middle East problem. This cannot happen, of course, until the Palestinian people are fully able to exercise their inalienable rights to self-determination and independence and to create their own sovereign State in Palestine, under the leadership of the PLO, their sole legitimate representative."
"18This is indeed a suitable occasion on which to support the right of the PLO to occupy a seat in this great assembly of the United Nations."
"18It is not possible to conclude our statement in the Assembly without directing our thoughts and recollections to the immortal figure of Simon Bolivar on the bicentenary of his birth. His revolutionary action, his efforts on behalf of independence, his dreams of unity for the peoples of America are neither forgotten nor consigned to history; they live in the life blood and the daily struggle of our peoples for a future of peace and development."
""
NA
NA
NA
NA
"	"
"The world situation could not be more alarming and dangerous than it is today, precisely one year after the start of the thirty-eighth session, when so many voices were raised in favour of detente in international relations. The imperialists, far from forsaking the path of the arms race and shows of force, have increased their aggressiveness and today threaten peace and security in the world."
"The policy of the Reagan Administration, aimed at achieving political, economic and military supremacy, has created new hotbeds of tension and exacerbated those already existing in various regions, turning the use and the threat of force into a State policy and relegating the principle of the peaceful solution of disputes to the status of a subject of verbal gymnastics."
"14Cuba attaches particular importance to the situation in Central America, where the danger of a generalization of the conflict is increasing. Notwithstanding the sincere and reiterated readiness of the Salvadorian revolutionaries to enter into a dialogue without pre-conditions in the search for a negotiated political settlement to the problem of El Salvador and notwithstanding the readiness of the Sandinist Front of Nicaragua to discuss and work for a negotiated solution to the conflict, the situation deteriorates daily."
"14Nicaragua's decision to accept immediately and without amendment the revised Contadora Act on Peace and Co-operation in Central America, presented on 7 September last by the Contadora Group, is irrefutable evidence of its readiness to seek through negotiation a solution to the conflict besetting the Central American peoples."
"14The Contadora Act contains various recommendations designed to open the way to peace. Outstanding among these are those aimed at halting or reducing the dangerous increase in military action in States of the region, such as: prior notification of national or joint military manoeuvres; prohibition of international military manoeuvres on their respective territories; ending the arms race in all its forms; cessation of the acquisition of arms; refusal to authorize the installation on their respective territories of foreign military bases or training establishments; elimination of existing foreign military bases or training establishments; establishment of a timetable for the gradual withdrawal and eventual removal of foreign military advisers; elimination within and outside the region traffic in arms with persons, organizations and irregular forces or armed bands trying to destabilize the Governments of the States parties;"
"14Nicaragua has asserted that an agreement between the five Central American States to guarantee peace and security in the region can be meaningful only if the Government of the United States formally commits itself to abide fully by such an agreement. Nicaragua deems it indispensable for the United States to subscribe to and ratify the Additional Protocol to the Contadora Act and consequently end forthwith its military aggression and all aggressive acts against Nicaragua."
"14Cuba, as President Fidel Castro pointed out over a year ago, desires an honourable solution, one based on mutual commitments, to the Central American conflict. That is the only real solution. Cuba reaffirms that it will support the negotiations entered into and the agreements reached by Nicaragua."
"15Cuba also reaffirms its support for the position of the Salvadorian revolutionaries, who have reaffirmed their readiness to negotiate a political settlement of the situation in El Salvador. It is quite clear that the United States must participate in such negotiations, since the real problem both in Nicaragua and in El Salvador results from United States interference and since no real, lasting solution of the situation in Central America will be possible without the establishment of mutual commitments, with the participation of the United States."
"15The history of the imperialist blockade and the constant acts of aggression against Nicaragua is well known. The country's harbours have been mined and its territory has been surrounded by military bases from which air, land and sea operations are launched."
"15Swept up in the feelings of triumph triggered by the shameful invasion of the little island of Grenada, which was condemned by the overwhelming majority of Member States at the thirty-eighth session of the General Assembly, the United States Government is now planning new blows against the free peoples of America and the national liberation movement. The Honduran Army has received aeroplanes, helicopters and sophisticated weaponry from the United States Administration in order to harass Nicaragua. Thousands of United States officers and soldiers are stationed in Honduran territory, where they have built military airports and roads, modernized harbours, set up arsenals and barracks and developed a powerful infrastructure for war. Meanwhile, the Government of El Salvador is maintained through the substantial aid which the United States is providing to cover the military expenses of that regime, with which it is attempting"
"15The scene seems to have been set for a new interventionist adventure. From a military point of view, all the conditions have been prepared, including the necessary infrastructure and logistical support, and the military command simply awaits the political decision to launch the intervention."
"15But history, like reality, follows an inexorable course and laws, and no force is capable of changing that course or those laws. Set-backs may and do occur in the spiralling development of society. Peoples which had made long strides in the process towards final emancipation have been subjected again to the yoke of oppression and neo-colonial exploitation because of exceptional circumstances and the \"opportune\" action of imperialism. But such exceptional conditions as were present in, for example, Grenada are not to be found in connection with the Salvadorian revolutionary movement, in Nicaragua or in Cuba."
"15Anyone who decides to send United States troops to invade Central America must be ready to face being militarily bogged down in the region, progressively weakened in an unbridled and massive war, until final victory is won by the peoples of the region. Equally, anyone who would send troops against Cuba must be ready to face an all-out war everywhere, all the time; a multifaceted war of the people which would turn every inch of land under the invader's foot into a veritable inferno, a war in which there would be no surrender or truce but a fight until final victory, regardless of the time and the sacrifices required."
"15But Cuba longs for peace in the region and in the world at large, a peace with equal dignity for all, everywhere, guaranteeing that climate of security, stability, respect and co-operation so urgently needed by our peoples to build their future. Thus, we reiterate today our deep appreciation and recognition of and respect for the endeavours of the Contadora Group, which deserves the continued support of the international community."
"15In southern Africa, the use of force and the threats and pressures exerted by United States imperialism maintain a climate of tension in that region, where the racist Pretoria regime, its strategic ally, continues to carry out a policy of aggression against the People's Republic of Angola and other independent States and persists in its illegal occupation of Namibia. It is precisely the overt support of the United States for the apartheid regime which has thwarted a peaceful, negotiated settlement of the question of Namibia and which is the main reason for the climate of tension and aggression prevailing in the southern part of the African continent."
"15In his statement of 26 July this year, at Cienfuegos, President Fidel Castro asserted that"
"\"any effort which may alleviate tension in our area, as well as international tensions, deserves our most serious consideration; any effort which tends to diminish the dangers of the folly of war. We are ready even to co-operate in the search for a political solution to the problem of the independence of Namibiaa problem which is important for southern Africaon the basis of resolution 435 (1978) of the United Nations Security Council. We are conscious of our responsibility to our people and to all mankind; that is our duty as socialists and as revolutionaries.\""
"15As far as Cuba and its expressed readiness to co-operate in the political solution of these problems are concerned, there are three essential aspects to that solution: the application of Security Council resolution 435 (1978); the cessation of all outside assistance to the armed organizations fighting against the recognized Government of Angola; and the cessation of all acts of aggression or threats of aggression against the People's Republic of Angola, including the withdrawal of the South African troops that even today remain in that country's territory. Those three basic requirements were affirmed in the joint declaration of the Governments of Angola and Cuba on 19 March 1984."
"16As is well known, the presence of Cuban troops in Angola came about and is determined by the request of the Angolan Government and the decision, based on solidarity, of the people and Government of Cuba to defend the sovereignty and security of Angola from the foreign aggression of which they were, and still are, the victims. There is no other reason, and there never has been any other reason, for the presence of our troops in Angola."
"16The strict implementation of resolution 435 (1978), which involves the withdrawal of South African troops from Namibia and the exercise by the Namibian people of its full sovereignty over all its territory, the cessation of foreign assistance to the counter-revolutionary organizations operating in Angola and the establishment of international guarantees for the respect of its sovereignty, territorial integrity and security will make possible the withdrawal of Cuban troops from Angola."
"16In their attempts to delay, boycott and impede the independence of Namibia, the imperialists and their ally, the racist Pretoria regime, resort to lies, diversionary tactics, coercion, pressure and blackmail. Whom do they expect to deceive? All of us know who is who and who does what for peace, social justice and the independence of peoples. We all know, furthermore, who does what for the true independence of Namibia, and we shall not be fooled by false expressions of concern."
"16For example, in September 1978, precisely six years ago, the Security Council unanimously adopted resolution 435 (1978), which should have opened the way for the independence of Namibia. Among its sponsors were the United States and other Western Powers. Nevertheless, it is significant that the United States has never voted in favour of any of the resolution on Namibia adopted by the General Assembly since that time."
"16During the current session, several other resolutions on Namibia will be considered by the Assembly. We invite the representatives of the countries represented here to note the results of the voting. I can assure them that there will be no surprises: the enemies of Namibian independence have names known to all of us."
"16Furthermore, the exploitation, the scorn and the discrimination to which the black people of South Africa are subjected have no parallel in history and cannot but arouse the world's solidarity with their struggle and their longing for equality and for their rights and their aspiration to create a just society based on majority rule to be respected, as well as active and militant solidarity with the African National Congress of South Africa [ANC], the legitimate representative and symbol of the South African people's struggle against the opprobrious apartheid regime."
"16The racists' response to the demands and aspirations of South African blacks has been to repress, terrorize, incarcerate, torture and execute their best children and patriots."
"16But it is not only in Central America and southern Africa that we see the imperialists arrogantly trying to maintain their interests under neo-colonial domination. Other focal points of tension exist in various parts of the world which must also be diffused in time if we are to avoid the progressive deterioration of the international situation and the risk of war. Effective action must be undertaken towards this end. The duty of the United Nations to preserve peace cannot be delegated; nor can the duty to demand that all States respect the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations be ignored, especially when the State in violation is a permanent member of the Security Council."
"16Never before has the policy of blackmail and of exerting pressure in international relations been so blatant, brutal or wide-ranging. It is now also used to place conditions on the financing of international organizations, especially those in which the United States has an overwhelming say. Pressures are exerted on the drafting of the budgets of international organizations in an attempt to stem the progress of multilateralism and international co-operation, to block the flow of resources for the development of economic and technical co-operation among developing countries, and to encourage a marked preference for bilateralism, which enables all sorts of political strings to be attached to the granting of assistance resources."
"16There can be no doubt that such policies are aimed at reversing the democratization process which has been taking place in international organizations since the end of the Second World War and which is rooted in the changes that have occurred in the world following the accession to independence of many peoples previously under colonial domination."
"17The results of the imperialist policy of aggression, blackmail and pressure are evident in the way in which the United States is isolated in international organizationsa situation which in turn feeds its irrational hatred of the United Nations system and its arrogant stand against the practice of multilateralism."
"17During the last session of the General Assembly, the United States Government voted against 90 of the 150 resolutions adopted by the Assemblya fact which reveals the anti-people, reactionary and hegemonistic character of the current Administration and its break with the prevailing world trends shared even by some of its principal allies."
"17Hence the Assembly's thirty-ninth session is beginning in an atmosphere rife with tension and grim expectations. The long list of important and sensitive issues before us requires an objective and sincere approach. Long hours of work await us if we are to improve the rarefied atmosphere prevailing in international relations and if we are to struggle once again to attain peace, development and a more just world order."
"17We are pleased that, in the present delicate circumstances, Mr. Paul Lusaka, of Zambia, is presiding over this important session of the Assembly. His contribution to the defence of the interests of underdeveloped countries, his indefatigable efforts as President of the United Nations Council for Namibia, his well-known organizational skills and personal capability assure him the respect, admiration and trust of the international community in the discharge of his serious responsibilities. Cuba pays tribute to Mr. Lusaka's unanimous election as President of the thirty-ninth session of the General Assembly and offers him the full support of its delegation as a modest contribution to his noble efforts for the success of this session."
"17We could not fail to express as well our sincere appreciation to Mr. Jorge Illueca, President of the Assembly's thirty-eighth session, who, with characteristic intelligence and tenacity, led the Assembly brilliantly through a period equally fraught with dangers and tension."
"17In its irrational quest for world strategic supremacy, the United States did not hesitate, only a year ago, to impose the deployment of 572 medium- range nuclear missiles, weapons with first-strike capability, in Western Europe in order to create an imbalance of forces in that region which could not but elicit the adoption of countermeasures by the Soviet Union and other socialist countries, thus increasing the danger of nuclear confrontation and turning several European States into virtual hostages or targets of a nuclear counter-attack."
"17The United States is frantically attempting to develop new weapons systems to be used in outer space and to militarize that environment, while dreaming of possible \"star wars\". The earth has become too small for the imperialists, who now wish to take the arms race into outer space."
"17In contrast to such an adventuristic and warlike policy is the serious, responsible and constructive attitude of the Soviet Union, whose initiatives in the field of disarmament, including the freezing of production and deployment of nuclear weapons and the prevention of the militarization of outer space, constitute a most valuable contribution to international peace and security, which Cuba hails and supports fully."
"17Cuba also supports the proposal submitted by the Soviet Union to include in the agenda of the current session as an important and urgent matter an item aimed at preventing certain States committed to military superiority from pursuing their policy of State terrorism in international affairs and, more frequently, attempting to undermine the socio-political regime of other States by force of arms."
"17Notwithstanding the opposition of the international community, including many of its allies, the United States Government is manoeuvring to prevent the beginning of real negotiations on an agreement prohibiting the militarization of outer space, and it continues the insane arms race. While bringing the world ever closer to a nuclear holocaust, the United States thus wastes enormous human and material resources which could be put to better use for the development and well-being of the world population."
"18Such senseless waste takes place in the midst of the most serious world economic crisis of the past 50 years. Originating in the developed capitalist countries, the crisis affects all countries, but the so- called developing countries are the hardest hit, subjected as they are to unfair international economic relations based on inequitable terms of trade and economic dependence."
"18At its thirty-fourth session, the General Assembly adopted a resolution expressing the desire of the overwhelming majority of its members for global negotiations aimed at restructuring international economic relations and establishing a more just and equitable international order. Unfortunately, we have not been able to advance a single step in that direction. It must be said that the process has stagnated mainly because of the intransigent and inflexible attitude of the United States Government."
"18Thus, the initiatives of the developing countries have met with no response. This is true of the well-known immediate economic measures endorsed by the Seventh Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at New Delhi from 7 to 12 March 1983, and further elaborated and presented in the form of a proposal by the Fifth Ministerial Meeting of the Group of 77, held at Buenos Aires from 28 March to 9 April 1983."
"18The so-called Buenos Aires Platform gave some hope for the success of the sixth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, held at Belgrade from 6 June to 2 July 1983. Perhaps never before has such a large group of countries worked so hard and so seriously on a package of important economic proposals. The failure of that session, the lack of practical results caused by the refusal of the United States representatives to undertake serious negotiationsa position which they also imposed on the group of developed capitalist countriesleft a bitter feeling of frustration among all those who had placed some hope in the sixth session."
"18Furthermore, high interest rates, in addition to contributing to the increase of the foreign debt of the developing countries to unbearable levelsthese now amount to over $300 billion, and it is virtually impossible for many countries to service and repay themhave caused a flow of capital to the United States and a depletion of the capital of the rest of the world in favour of that country, thus helping to finance the huge deficit generated by the arms race. Hence, paradoxically, some developing countries which are also affected by the economic crisis and which demand that the resources wasted on the arms race be diverted to development, contribute to the promotion of that race."
"18Obsessed with their quest for strategic military supremacy and their desire to strengthen the predominance of their transnational corporations, the imperialists are indifferent to the misery and pain inflicted upon the vast majority of the world's population."
"18The United States Government refuses to agree not to be the first to use nuclear weapons and is deluded by the dream of a limited nuclear war by means of a deadly \"first strike\", based on the fallacious belief that peace can be attained through the use of force."
"18It should therefore be the immediate, priority objectives of the General Assembly gradually to lessen the economic burden borne by mankind and ensure peace. It must find ways and means of turning words into deeds. To that end, Cuba, as a founding member of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, will make every effort to ensure that the high ideals of the Movementthe eradication of war and exploitation, of the inequities in international relations and of all forms of colonial and imperialist oppression may prevail."
"18We reaffirm today our unswerving support and encouragement for the peoples that, having attained political power, now wage a tireless struggle for peace and development and close their ranks in the face of imperialist threats. We reaffirm our militant solidarity with those peoples that by sacrifice and determination are opening the way to freedom and independence. We reaffirm our solidarity with the workers and peasants, students and professionals, artists, intellectuals and scientists who, in the midst of hostile societies, daily plant the seeds of brotherhood with their own hands, their toil, their ideas, their art or their science."
"18We pay a tribute to the Sandinist combatants struggling heroically to build a new Nicaragua on the moral ruins of Somoza's regime and of colonial and neo-colonial domination. We express our firm conviction that, in spite of the present acts, of aggression and threats, Nicaragua will for ever be free through the noble sacrifice of its finest children."
"19We extend our greetings and assurances of solidarity to the Farabundo Marti Front for National Liberation, the Revolutionary Democratic Front and to all the Salvadorian people, whose combative stature has grown in the struggle against the combined forces of imperialism and El Salvador's puppet army."
"19We reiterate our demand that the invading troops in Grenada, led by the United States, cease their occupation of that country. The people of Grenada has the legitimate right to decide its own destiny in an independent and sovereign manner."
"19The Cuban delegation reaffirms its support for the struggle of the people of Puerto Rico, that unredeemed portion of our America, in their un-swerving aspiration to exercise their right to self- determination and independence, free from colonial ties."
"19We wish to express once again our support for the desire of the Panamanian people and Government that the provisions of the Panama Canal treaties be strictly observed and respected; for Bolivia's just demand to recover its access to the sea; for Belize's non-aligned status, territorial integrity, independence and sovereignty."
"19We stand for a peaceful settlement of the differences between Guyana and Venezuela over the Esequibo region. We stand also for the recovery of the Malvinas, South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands by the Argentine Republic through negotiations between Argentina and the United Kingdom, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly. We urge the United Kingdom Government to undertake such negotiations immediately."
"19We pay homage to the Chilean people, who, defying the arrogance, terror and repression of the Fascist Junta, have raised with dignity and in open struggle the banner of their ideals of social justice and independence, free from corrupt national oligarchy and imperialism. Sooner or later, the people of Chile will win. We salute the struggle of other South American peoples who suffer the repression of the vassals of imperialism, in particular the Uruguayan people, who, having taken to the streets in protest, have secured the freedom of patriots who truly represent their ideals and aspirations and are still struggling to secure it for all other political prisoners and to achieve a truly democratic system. We salute them for having forced the Government to recognize the existence of previously banned political parties. They, too, will regain their freedom and will hold the reins of their destiny in their own hands."
"19We hail the efforts to create a climate of peace and stability in South-East Asia; we urge all concerned to continue such actions, steps and measures as may enable them to attain that important goal, and we reaffirm our solidarity with the countries of Indo-China, which still endure hostility and foreign aggression."
"19We believe that in South-West Asia efforts to promote a stable climate of peace and security based on mutual respect among the parties to the conflict must prevail."
"19We support the just aspirations and efforts of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to achieve the peaceful reunification of their country, and we call for the cessation of interference in the internal affairs of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and for the withdrawal of United States interventionist forces from the southern part of the Korean peninsula."
"19We support the aspiration of the Comoros to recover sovereignty over Mayotte and of Madagascar to regain its rights over the Malagasy islands, the Glorieuses, Juan de Nova, Europa and Bassas da India; and we support the just demand of Mauritius to recover the island of Diego Garcia."
"20We support the people of Cyprus in its just and respected efforts to preserve the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of its country within the framework of a united, non-aligned Republic, and we reject the proclamation of the \"Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus\", as well as any attempt to partition the island."
"20Once more, we urge the Governments of Iran and Iraq to put an end to the war, waged for over four years now, with uninterrupted bloodshed and a drainage of resources which deeply affects the living standards and development expectations of both peoples, and threatens international peace and security."
"20We extend our solidarity also to the brave Saharan combatants and to the long-suffering, heroic and fraternal Palestinian people and its sole and legitimate representative, the PLO, in its tenacious struggle to exercise its inalienable rights, including the establishment of its own State in Palestine; we support, too, the convening of an international peace conference on the Middle East, under the auspices of the United Nations and with the participation of all the interested parties."
"20We offer encouragement to the Namibian patriots in their valiant struggle against the repression of the Pretoria regime, a struggle waged under the guidance of the South West Africa People's Organization, the sole and legitimate representative of the people of Namibia, as well as to the brave South African patriots in the ANC, who maintain an active struggle in the very heart of the disgraceful apartheid regime. We pay a tribute to the front-line States for resisting the attacks of South Africa and its allies; to the Arab countries, which face the joint actions of zionism and imperialism; to all those who, no matter where, defend, with their lives, their right to freedom and dignity as human beings"
"Forty years ago, on the ruins of Nazi fascism and of the infamous and ignominious \"New Order\" that Hitler's hordes tried to impose on mankind, the peoples of the United Nations founded this Organization \"determined to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war\", to reaffirm their faith in the undying values of man and mankind and in the equal rights of nations large and small, to establish conditions under which justice and equity could be maintained and \"to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom\"."
"Now, four decades after that great victory, as we gather once again to take stock, the signs are cloudy in regard to the international situation."
"With deep concern, we note the continued worsening of the world political and economic situation owing to the persistence of serious crises and tensions in international relations, to the obstacles set up against the peoples' legitimate aspirations to emancipation and independent development without foreign interference or intervention, to the spiraling growth of the arms race resulting from the insane imperialist policy of seeking an impossible military supremacy so as to decide the fate of the world from positions of strength, and to the attempts at extending this race to outer space."
"Today more than ever before, the threat of nuclear extermination weighs on mankind. The policies of imperialism are characterized by the use or threat of use of force, intervention, destabilization, aggression, economic and political coercion, hegemony and oppression, while the crisis of the world capitalist system, which is growing ever deeper, brutally affects the developing countries and endangers their independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, making economic development virtually impossible for them."
"The overwhelming foreign debt of the so-called third-world countries - an explosive phenomenon with an unquestionable political dimension - is a tragic note in the sombre panorama of the current international situation."
"The economic crisis is becoming evident in the unceasingly widening gap between the developed and the developing countries, many of which cannot even meet their people's basic needs or essential development requirements."
"Far from improving the terms of trade and overcoming the unjust structures of an obsolete international economic order, inequality is increasing, highlighting the asymmetry in relations between the two groups of countries - an asymmetry which leads to the ever greater enrichment of the capitalist countries at the expense of the decapitalization and impoverishment of third-world nations."
"The seriousness of the present situation and the consequences that would result from a nuclear conflagration show - if proof is needed - that there is no viable option for the survived, of the human race other than the policy of peaceful coexistence between states with different economic, social and political systems, international detente and the settlement of conflicts through exclusively peaceful Beans."
"On addressing the difficult problems facing the international community today, I should like. Sir, to express the satisfaction of the Cuban delegation over your election as President of the General Assembly on this significant and delicate occasion. I am sure that your recognized qualities as an experienced diplomat and your long-standing ties with this Organization will enable you to guide our labors with wisdom towards the lofty goals we all seek to achieve. We assure you of our delegation's support in carrying out your important tasks."
"Set on imposing their domination, the United States imperialists will stop at nothing to attain a military superiority that will allow them to negotiate from positions of strength and nuclear blackmail. In its eagerness to militarize outer space, the united States Government recently announced the beginning of anti-satellite weapons tests as part of a programs that will require expenditures of up to $95 billion by the year 2000."
"United States imperialism is promoting this new escalation in the arms race, which includes nuclear arms and other weapons of mass destruction, even though this practice increases the risks of nuclear war and thus endangers the very-survival of mankind."
NA
"During the past 40 years, one united States Administration after another has the world from the so-called cold war and the policy of brinkmanship to the policy of local wars waged against third-world countries, the provocative installation of new weapons and missile systems aimed against the Soviet union and other socialist countries, and the so-called star wars - if not to State terrorism directed against revolutionary countries and peoples. They have even advanced the absurd theory that it is possible to survive a nuclear strike, and have hinted that a surprise attack could be successfully launched against the Soviet Union. Their arrogant language is filled with expressions such as \"surgical strikes\" - to be used against small countries like Nicaragua - \"covert operations\" and \"clean-up operations,\" expressions that reveal the predatory, zoological nature of their foreign policy."
"Cuba condemns all attempts to militarize outer space - especially the united States Government's so-called strategic defense initiative - and expresses its support for the Soviet Union's proposal concerning international co-operation in the peaceful exploration of outer space in the context of the non-militarization of outer space."
"He welcome the holding of talks at the highest level between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America. The determination and readiness of Soviet leaders to make whatever efforts are necessary to prevent a new world conflagration, to avoid a nuclear holocaust, to pat an end to the arms race and to prevent it from spreading to outer space are quite evident. He know of their firm determination to struggle for international detente, and we place our full trust in their Leninist peace policy, which embraces the hopes and aspirations of all the peoples of the world."
"\"But\", as President Fidel Castro said in this very Hall in 1979 \"for our countries, peace is indivisible (A/34/PV.31, p. 3-5). Thus, the search for peace is a cardinal objective of our peoples and ranks among our most important concerns during this session of the General Assembly."
"Just as the avoidance of nuclear war is an irrenounceable historical imperative, so too is the prevention of the use of an agreement banning the possibility of nuclear war as an excuse for the proliferation of imperialist wars against those Asian, African or Latin-American countries seeking to exercise their rights to self-determination and independence and attempting to build a new life based on economic and political pluralism, on a non-capital is t option of development or on socialism."
"As Comrade Fidel pointed out, \"The time has therefore come for all of us to join in the task of drawing entire peoples - hundreds of millions of hum?\" beings - out of the backwardness, poverty, malnutrition, disease and illiteracy that keep them from enjoying full human dignity and pride\". (A/34/PV.31, p. 53-55) Therefore, when we invoke the need to settle conflicts by peaceful means, to avoid a terrible and final war that would end human life as we know it, to promote dialog and understanding among all states, regardless of their social and economic systems, and when we demand an end to the philosophy of plunder, so that there may be an end to the philosophy of war, we should also demand that all vestiges of colonialism be wiped off the face of the earth."
"The situation of the third-world countries has dramatically worsened since the beginning of this decade. Their foreign debt has multiplied, the terms of trade between the developed capitalist countries and the developing countries continue to be totally unjust and to constitute an abuse; credits are granted in unfair conditions; markets have contracted owing to protectionist measures applied by developed capitalist countries against our industrial products and raw materials; and the influx of capital, both official and private, into underdeveloped countries has been reduced - all of which contributes to the progressive deterioration of their fragile economies."
"The foreign debt of developing countries has already reached the impressive figure of more than $900 billion. Latin America alone now owes $360 billion, more than the total debt of all the third-world countries only six years ago. The total debt of the African countries, which is over $160 billion, has a greater per capita impact than Latin America's if, in addition to the lesser relative development of those countries, we consider the serious damage caused by drought and hunger to a large number of them."
"The economic crisis has overtaken and, in a way, has been thrust on the economics of the less-developed countries. He can say that we are dealing with a process that had been in the offing for some time and the consequences of which are more or less serious, depending on each country's economic resources and also on the greater or lesser efficiency with which it has been able to defend itself against the crisis or to try to overcome it."
"The group of non-aligned countries, which convened in Luanda a few weeks ago for the eighth ministerial meeting of the Movement, owe Western countries a total of almost $590 billion. This means that we must pay over $60 billion for debt-servicing this year alone. What could our peoples not do with such a sum of money if it were used to stimulate industry and agricultural production, to increase food production, health development and education?"
"The insurmountable problems- generated by the existence of this swollen debt do not lie only in the difficulties which our countries face in paying the interest. While it is true that receiving credits to cover the servicing of the debt raises the level of their indebtedness in a way that calls into question any possibility of development, and therefore of eventually repaying the debt, the attempts that some countries have made to honor their commitments - in unfair conditions, as we have already seen, in which the dollar has been overvalued several tines and high interest rates prevail - have failed, owing to the serious deterioration in the terms of trade and the resultant reduction in their export earnings for this period."
"If we consider that the allocation of 20 per cent of export earnings to pay the foreign debt, far from solving the debt, will increase it and is practically untenable, what will happen when our countries must devote - a-i many are already doing - 57, 52, 45 or 36 per cent of their export earnings to this purpose? How can the sharp drop in the standard of living of the majority sectors of the population be curbed? Have the deflationary measures prescribed-by the International Monetary Fund managed to halt the desperation of the working classes, the impoverishment of the middle classes, unemployment, the increase in consumer prices, and the reduction of exports and domestic production in the developing countries?"
"The daily papers in any Latin-American country bear witness to the contrary -as has also been evident for some time now in the statistical yearbooks of the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean."
"What is true is that the capitalist countries' protectionist measures; dumping; the over-evaluation of the dollar; the persistence of unequal terms of trade; high interest rates; and the current international monetary, financial and economic trade system as a whole - all work to the detriment of the developing countries, have prcRsct@d a reverse transfer of capital to the developed capitalist countries, and reinforce the dependence, underdevelopment and stagnation of the countries of the so-called third world."
"Cuba insists that it is necessary to do away with the abysmal inequality that separates our countries from the developed countries, we must therefore struggle to eradicate the poverty, hunger, sickness and illiteracy from which hundreds of millions of human beings still suffer. We aspire to a new world order, based on justice, equity and peace, to replace the unjust, unequal system which now prevails, in which, as was proclaimed in the Havana Declaration of 1979 by the Heads of State or Government of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries,"
"\"wealth is still concentrated in the hands of a few powers whose wasteful economies are maintained by the exploitation of the labor as well as the transfer and plunder of the natural and other resources of the peoples of Africa, Asia, Latin America and other regions of the world.\" (A/34/542, Annex, Political Declaration, para. 7)"
"In proclaiming the unpayable and uncollected nature of the developing countries' foreign debt, we do not indulge in hyperbole, nor do we brandish propagandists slogans, as some capitalist leaders and certain elements of their press claim. We base our opinion on rigorous, scientific analysis that can be clearly demonstrated with irrefutable facts - for example, in 1984 the flight of Latin American capital to the developed capitalist countries, mainly the United States; the deterioration in the terns of trade, provoked by an increase in the prices of the industrial goods and intermediate goods that we import and a drop in the purchasing power of our export products; the artificial, arbitrary maintenance of high interest rates; and the real increase in the debt and the interest on it, due to the over-evaluation of the dollar."
"All of that led to the illegal plunder of more than $45 billion from our America, as Fidel Castro pointed out in his well-known interview granted to the Mexican daily newspaper Excelsior; 020 billion owing to the deterioration in the terns of exchange, $10 billion owing to excessive interest, $10 billion owing to the flight of currency and - at a conservative estimate - $5 billion owing to the over-evaluation of the dollar. He also affirmed:"
"\"Adding it all up, including what can be considered normal interest on the debt, in just one year the Latin American countries have turned over to the rich, developed world around $70 billion, of which $50 billion was in cash."
"\"That is why we feel that it is indispensable, decisive and urgent to solve the problem of the debt. The crisis is advancing and will continue to do so. It is illusory to think it can be solved through palliatives, debt rescheduling and traditional formulas. We must get to the bottom of the problems created by under-development, which hinder our countries' development and continue to widen the gap between the industrialized and the third world countries. In addition to solving the problem of the debt, we must establish the new international economic order once and for all.\""
"That that is feasible is shown by the capitalist countries' experience, as was pointed out on 12 September by The Wall Street Journal, which cannot be suspected of having the slightest leftist proclivities. It said:"
"\"To realize the folly of this course imposed by the IMF it is only necessary to consider western Europe in the aftermath of world War II. Suppose that the Marshall Plan had been organized by the commandant es now installed in the IMF. Those weary and indebted nations would have been pressed to further sacrifices. Instead of the aid that revived their economies, benefited the U.S. and helped stimulate the great post-war boom, IMF measures of the sort urged today would have meant a continuation of the horrors of war by other means.\""
"The article added:"
"\"Yet in contrast to that post-war boldness the approach espoused by the IMF has led, since 1982, to a net capital inflow from the third to the first world. The only sector to which this can possibly be of advantage is the banks, which will do anything rather than write off their uncollectable loans, since this would mean confessing to their shareholders that a large amount of their assets are worthless.\" The Wall Street Journal concluded:"
"\"The only answer is to write off the debt and begin again with productive loans that are not merely roll-over servicing for debt, but that will underwrite that desirable state of affairs: the net outflow of the surplus from the developed to the developing world.\""
"In other words, as in the bank crisis of 1928, the Governments of the capitalist States should assume the third world countries' debts to private banks and stimulate a new flow of resources for development, which could very well come from a low percentage of their military expenditures. Ten per cent or, if the interest remains high, 12 per cent of their military expenditure would suffice, and those expenditures would still be.fabulously high and give cause for concern."
"We hope that the United Nations, as an irreplaceable forum for examining and helping to solve the main economic and political problems of our time, will make a positive contribution to the solution of the thorny problems of the foreign debt, together with the efforts that are already being made to convene an international conference on monetary and financial resources for development."
"In mentioning the dramatic situation presently faced by the underdeveloped countries as a result of the capitalist economic crisis surrounding them and of the unequal exchange holding them back, we cannot forget the tragedy nature has just inflicted on one of them, a respected member of the United Nations community and a Latin American sister nation, Mexico. Mexico's grief is shared by all the people of Cuba, who are linked to Mexico not only by geographical proximity and the fact that they belong to Latin America and the Caribbean, but also by unbreakable bonds of history and affection, we reiterate our sympathy for and solidarity with Mexico at this unfortunate time for its people."
"In conveying Cuba's condolences to the Government and people of Mexico, and our readiness to assist. President Fidel Castro urged Mexico's creditor countries to suspend servicing of the foreign debt so that Mexico might - with the integrity it has already shown - face up to the effects of the disaster now afflicting the country. That would be a way of alleviating its terrible situation. Mexico needs real and effective solidarity, not crumbs from the International Monetary Fund."
"Today the unity of Latin America and the Caribbean - above and beyond ideologies and ideas that might be opposed on certain issues - is more urgent and necessary than ever before, in order to tackle the huge problems, overwhelming them. It is regrettable that at such a time we heard from this rostrum in Latin American words a repetition of the vile slanders and rotten arguments developed in Washington, in an attempt to obscure the irrefutable signs and the only possible solutions, put forward by those who have for a quarter of a century, with unique firmness and heroism, resisted blockade, military aggression, economic siege and attempts to isolate them politically, and who have practiced genuine internationalism everywhere in the world. It is regrettable because we know those infamous suggestions are a product of consultations and capitulations in the belief that the empire would forgive them for their timid and compromised rebellion. It is regrettable because what is being stridently presented as a drastic solution"
"We will not allow ourselves to be drawn into dissension, we reaffirm the commitment by President Fidel Castro that those who are attacked or harassed for defending the rights of their peoples to reject - through whichever formula they may choose - the misery that would be wrought upon them by demanding that they repay their foreign debt will have Cuba's support. But we doubt that those who pick their arguments from the arsenal of imperialism, those who repeat Yankee slanders, will be able to make good their promises and hoist with firm hands the colors they seek to uphold before world public opinion. Latin America's history is replete with such outdated, prevaricating redeemers."
"As the Foreign Ministers of the non-aligned countries stated in the Luanda Declaration a few weeks ago, Latin America and the Caribbean are one of the areas of the world which have suffered most directly from acts of aggression by colonial and imperialist Powers. The Ministers noted with deep concern that the situation in Central America now constituted one of the main focal points of tension in the international arena and that, notwithstanding repeated appeals by the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and the rest of the international community, as well as efforts by the Contadora Group to find a negotiated solution, the situation in that area was continuing to deteriorate as a result of the implementation of imperialist policies of interference and intervention. This, together with the poverty and oppression to which the region has been subjected throughout its history, constitutes a real threat to international peace and security. In this regard, they observed that the danger of direct United States intervention in"
"The non-aligned countries were not mistaken when they described the situation in our part of the world in such severe terms. Age-old hunger, lack of land, jobs, schools, hospitals and political rights, continued humiliation, and other abuses of all kinds have filled the people with a hatred of tyrants and a longing for a freedom that they do not yet enjoy. Those are the true roots of the social revolution that the imperialists are trying to crush by establishing an enormous military apparatus in the territories adjoining Nicaragua."
"Bands of counter-revolutions continue to penetrate Nicaraguan territory from Costa Rica and Honduras. They are trained, armed and financed and receive logistical support from the United States Government; they commit abominable crimes against farmers and other inhabitants of small settlements. During this period the number of Attacks, military actions and other measures against the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity, stability and self-determination of Nicaragua has increased."
"Its air space and territorial waters are still being violated, and joint military maneuvers of a purely intimidatory nature by United States, together with those of other states in the region, are still going on, emphasizing the threats of surgical operations or selective bombardments against Sandino's homeland."
"Since the creation of the Contadora Group in 1983, Cuba has expressed its support for that Group's goals of searching for a peaceful, negotiated solution for the Central American conflict. Nicaragua has expressed its willingness to sign the Act on Peace and Co-operation in Central America, of 7 September 1984, which was the result of long and arduous discussions by the parties concerned. However, the United States Government - which until then had been making hypocritical statements in support of the efforts of the Latin American countries - mobilized its allies in the area to prevent the adoption of any formula that would proscribe military interference in an area which it considers its backyard."
"The situation is no less critical in El Salvador, where increased united States military aid to the genocidal Government has resulted in a worsening of the conflict and taken a toll of thousands of victims among the civilian population in the territories controlled by the Salvadorian patriots. The revolutionary forces, grouped in the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front and the Revolutionary Democratic Front, have given convincing proof not only of their willingness but also of their capacity to undertake a serious dialog with the Government, without any strings attached, in order to find a peaceful, negotiated solution in accord with the aspirations of the Salvadorian people and the overwhelming majority of the international community. That dialog, which was unilaterally broken off by the Government, should be resumed as soon as possible."
"Cuba supports the Cantadora Group's genuine LatinAmerican initiative and hails the backing it has received- from the Governments of Argentina, Brazil, Peru and Uruguay. It calls on all interested States to speed up negotiations aimed at achieving an Act acceptable to all the Central American States and demands that the United States Government end all its military, economic and political acts of aggression against the legitimate Government of Nicaragua."
"No examination of the situation in Latin America and the Caribbean would be complete without mention of the criminal United States invasion of the tiny island of Grenada which so brutally destroyed that sister country's aspirations to national sovereignty and freedom, once more reducing it to the sad condition of a semi-colony under the Yankee imperial boot, in defiance of decisions of this Assembly. We express our deep aversion to the presence in this hall of those who claiming to represent Grenada are thus staining the immortal principles of those who, together with the unforgettable Maurice Bishop, once proclaimed the genuine independence of that country."
"Also in the Caribbean, the people of Betances, Hostos, Albizu Campos and Corretjer are still seeking recognition of their right to self-determination and independence, as was seen in the united Nations special Committee on decolonization some months ago. In reaffirming the full applicability of resolution 1514 (XV) to Puerto Rico, the Committee expressed the international community's hope that the Puerto Rican people would be able freely to exercise their rights without outside interference and that they would be able to determine their political status in keeping with their Latin American and Caribbean identity. From this rostrum, we once again reiterate our lasting solidarity with the Puerto Rican people and its ideals of freedom."
"Together with the other Foreign Ministers of non-aligned countries who net in Luanda, we reiterate the need to do away with colonialism in all its forms and manifestations in Latin America and the Caribbean and express our concern at the fact that colonial Powers are using territories in the region as bases or ports of call for ships carrying nuclear weapons or for storing such weaponry."
"In this regard, we denounce the existence of imperialist military bases in Puerto Rico, at Guantanamo, in the Malvinas Islands and in other parts of Latin America, because they constitute a threat to our countries' security and peace in the region."
"He express our support for the legitimate expectations of the Panamanian people and Government that the agreements on the Panama Canal and on the neutrality of that inter-oceanic waterway be strictly observed."
"- He also firmly support the right of the Argentine Republic to reestablish its sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands through negotiations with the Government of the United Kingdom, with the participation and good offices of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, and we endorse Bolivia's legitimate and just claim to have restored to it a direct, useful outlet to the Pacific Ocean, with full sovereignty over such an area."
"He trust that the establishment of democratic Governments in Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay will represent a new stage in Latin America and deal a powerful blow to the imperialists hegemonistic pretentions in the region. The broad avenues of freedom foreseen by President Salvador Allende will open up sooner, rather than later, for his still unredeemed people, who are struggling courageously against Pinochet's cruel tyranny. The people's steadfast determination to exercise their sovereignty without restrictions of any kind will be shared in Latin America."
"Our Government places particular importance on the situation prevailing in southern Africa where the racist regime in Pretoria, a strategic ally of United States imperialism, illegally continues to occupy the Territory of Namibia in flagrant violation of resolutions of the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity, the Non-Aligned Movement and other international forums."
"Thanks to President Reagans \"constructive engagement\" with Mr. Botha's fascists. South Africa is persisting in its policy of bantustanization and the exportation of apartheid, attempting to impose a puppet government on Namibia, facilitating the plundering of that Territory by Yankee and other imperialist transnational corporations and ruthlessly repressing the Namibian patriots. Cuba hails the heroic Namibian combatants and reiterates its support for that people's legitimate struggle, led by the South West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO), their sole legitimate representative."
"The duplicity of the United States Government and its racist associates has become obvious, for, on the pretext of holding talks with the People's Republic of Angola with a view to finding a solution for Namibia's independence and for the situation in southern Africa, they have been playing for time in order, to shore up the apartheid regime in South Africa, to expand and strengthen their control in Namibia, to weaken and divide the front-line States and to intimidate other independent neighboring States."
"This maneuver was revealed when, in spite of the steps taken by the Government of the People's Republic of Angola in compliance with the Lusaka Agreements and with the talks held at Cape Verde and Luanda that were announced by President Jose Eduardo Dos Santos in a letter addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the racist South Africa troops continued to occupy a part of Angolan territory. Both the United States and South Africa continued fully to support the counterrevolutionaries who are trying to destabilize Angola, and a commando team of the racist special forces went into Cabinda to sabotage the oil installations there, to paralyze the.country's economy, attributing the action to the counterrevolutionary forces. This was done in order to intimidate the heroic Angolan people, to prevent the holding of the Ministerial Meeting of the non-aligned countries in the region and to make the world believe that the revolutionary Government was approaching its end."
"The facts are that the Angolan armed forces quickly and efficiently defeated the South African aggressors and prevented them from carrying out their criminal plans in Cabinda, plans that would have taken hundreds of lives, including those of the United States technicians working there for Gulf Oil. The bands of counterrevolutionaries are being dealt heavy losses; the so-called victories of the UNXTA traitors occur only in the Lisbon newspapers and the non-aligned Ministerial Meeting was held in Luanda in absolute peace and quiet with the warn hospitality of that courageous people."
"The South African racists have once again shown their arrogance and contempt for world public opinion."
"More them 120 countries sent delegations to the Ministerial Meeting of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries in Luanda, Angola, and over half of those delegations were headed by Ministers. That constituted a powerful expression of the Movement's solidarity with the Angolan people in their struggle in defense of their independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. In the course of the ten years that have passed since Angola achieved its independence it has repulsed continual acts of aggression by the racist Pretoria regime."
"The first decision adopted at the Ministerial Meeting at Luanda was to send a warm message of solidarity to Nelson Mandela in his apartheid prison. South Africa responded in its customary style, with a new attack on Angola. On 16 September South African troops invaded Angolan territory and the South African air forces penetrated deep into Angola's air space in order to attack the units of the Angolan armed forces that were pursuing fleeing UNITAR bands in Mavinga in Cuando-Cubango Province."
"The Pretoria racists place no limits on their actions and do not hesitate to violate even the most elementary norms of international law in their vain attempts to save their servants in the UNITA counterrevolutionary bands from inexorable defeat. The Security Council must denounce South Africa for this flagrant new evidence of its attitude, which violates the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter."
"It Is therefore imperative for us to continue to support the struggle of the Namibian people by all possible means until final victory is won. In this regard Cuba supports the convening of a special session of the General Assembly on the. question of Namibia in 1986 and the holding of an international consultative conference on this question in Western Europe during the course of that same year. It also supports the imposition of mandatory comprehensive sanctions against South Africa in conformity with Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations if Pretoria refuses to comply with Security Council resolution 435 (1978) and other Security Council resolutions on Namibia."
"Because of its policies and practices the racist Pretoria regime is th'i main cause of the violence and instability in southern Africa. Its brutal acts of oppression, repression and discrimination against the black population have recently been stepped up with the arbitrary detention, arrest and imprisonment of opponents of the apartheid regime and the imposition of a state of emergency, all of which reached alarming proportions with a brutal massacre of the defenseless population, including children."
"There is no doubt that this hideous system of discrimination and exploitation practiced by the fascist white minority against the overwhelming majority of the South African people is possible only because of the unlimited support given it by the United States Government and the aid given it by other western countries and Israel."
"The growing movement against apartheid in Western Europe, North America,"
"Australasia and other parts of the world reveals the worldwide opposition to this monstrous system, which the United Nations has described as a crime against mankind, and there is a growing demand that economic, financial, military, political and diplomatic support for the Pretoria regime be ended."
"In concert with all progressive men and women we call for the immediate and unconditional release of Nelson Mandela, Zephania, Mothopeng and all the other patriots and political prisoners who are confined in South African prisons? we also call for respect for the prisoner-of-war status of all freedom fighters who have been captured, in conformity with the 1949 Geneve Convention and of Article 44 of Protocol 1 annexed to that Convention. The application of mandatory comprehensive sanctions against the racist Pretoria regime will help to speed the downfall of the iniquitous system of oppression, exploitation and discrimination that, to the shame"
"of their leaders, the racists and their imperialist allies maintain in the southern cone of Africa."
"It is necessary that the Security Council adopt them as soon as possible. Cuba reiterates its militant support for the South African combatants in the heroic Umkhonto we Sizwe, the armed branch of the African National Congress, the sole, legitimate representative of the South African people."
"We support the Sahraoui people's legitimate cause and their right to self-determination and independence in conformity with the resolutions of the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity and the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries."
"In the year of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the adoption of resolution 1514 (XV), the Magna Carta of decolonization, we insist on the restitution of Madagascar's sovereignty over the islands of Europa, Juan de Nova, Glorieuses and Bassas da India. We affirm our solidarity with the Comorians in their aspiration to recover the island of Mayotte and with Mauritius in its struggle to recover Diego Garcia. We support the cause of the abolition of colonialism in Africa, Asia and Latin America before the end of this century in conformity with the purposes and principles of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and the Charter of the United Nations. And we call on all Member States of the United Nations to redouble their efforts to fulfill this sacred mandate of the peoples as soon as possible."
"The situation in the Middle East continues to deteriorate as a result of Israel's aggressive and expansionist policies in the region, in which it has the support- and complicity of the imperialist United States Government."
"As has been said countless times, the question of Palestine lies at the heart of the crisis in the Middle East and the Arab-Israeli conflict. Since they are inextricably linked, no partial or isolated solution can lead to just, comprehensive, lasting peace in the region. Such peace can be based only on the"
"total, unconditional withdrawal of Israeli troops from all the occupied Palestinian and other Arab territories, including Jerusalem and on recognition of the Palestinian people's inalienable rights, including the right to return to their homeland and their homes, the right to self-determination without outside interference and the right to establish their own independent, sovereign State in Palestine."
"Cuba reiterates its solidarity with the Palestinian people's cause and calls for the prompt holding of an international conference on peace in the Middle East under the auspices of the United Nations and with the participation of all interested parties, including the Palestine Liberation Organization, the sole legitimate representative of that people which has suffered for so long."
"We call for the complete and unconditional withdrawal of Israeli troops from southern Lebanon and the re-establishment of the Lebanese people's national sovereignty over their territory up to its internationally recognized borders."
"We condemn United States imperialism's strategic alliance with expansionist, exclusivist Zionism against the Arab and African countries, in connivance with South Africa's racist regime, and especially the nuclear collaboration between South Africa and Israel, which endangers international peace and security."
"The situation in the Republic of Cyprus continues to be a cause of concern to the international community. We deplore the Turkish Cypriot leadership's unilateral declaration of independence of 15 November 1983. we consider it to bo legally null and void. We believe that serious negotiations between the two communities and the good offices of the SecretaryGeneral are necessary to arrive at a just and viable solution of the Cypriot question that ensures for the Cypriot people independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-aligned status."
"As in the past, we are in favor of increasing the efforts of the united Nations and the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries to put an end to the fratricidal war between Iran and Iraq, which has already taken a heavy toll in human lives and property."
"In South-East Asia, threats and acts of aggression continue against the Indo-Chinese countries, for which we reaffirm our support. We endorse the successes of the People's Republic of Kampuchea in its struggle to do away with the remnants of Pol Pot's savagery and to build a new life. We wish to make known our disagreement with the presence in the United Nations of the executioners of the Kampuchean people, who are basely linked to the Yankee imperialists, who put Lon Nol in power and attacked the Kampuchean people. They are usurping the seat of the People's Republic."
"With regard to South-west Asia, we favor seeking a solution on the basis of the consultations being promoted by the Secretary-General of the united Nations, with full respect for the political, economic and social options of each of the peoples of the region and for their independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-aligned status."
"We hail the efforts of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to achieve the peaceful reunification of Korea, free of all foreign interference, by means of dialog and consultations between the north and the south in accordance with the principles of independence, peaceful reunification and national unity, as expressed in the Joint Declaration of 4 June 1972. The peaceful reunification of Korea must inevitably be supplemented by the withdrawal of the united States troops occupying the southern part of the peninsula."
"In advocating the continuance of such efforts we feel compelled to express our concern at the fact that the forthcoming Olympic Games have been scheduled to be held in only one part of Korea, the south. This reflects a deplorable political decision on the part of those who direct the Olympic movement and is contrary to the spirit of the Olympic Games and the aspirations to brotherhood and friendship among peoples and mutual understanding embodied in the Olympic ideal. We are in favor of the Olympic Games being held throughout the Korean peninsula, both north and south, so as to safeguard the Olympic movement and to make a positive contribution to the peaceful reunification of and mutual understanding between the two parts of the country."
"Ever since its founding on 24 October 1945, the United Nations has played a vital role in international relations. The aims and objectives expressed in its Charter are as relevant, powerful and significant today as they ever were. The world we wish to build, a world in which weapons have been turned into plough shares and the use of force has been abolished except in the service of common interests, is far from a reality."
"During those 40 years, however, old colonial empires have disappeared; people:: in Asia and Africa that used to be oppressed have won their national liberation struggles and attained independence; the socialist camp has been established and over two thirds of mankind have been freed from the exploitation of man by man. Furthermore, at the initiative of the Soviet Union and with the support of the third world, the international community adopted in 1960 the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. Since then, dozens of third-world peoples and territories, some of them in Latin America and the Caribbean, have freed themselves from the colonial yoke."
"The task is not yet completed of course, as the cases of South Africa, the Malvinas Islands, the colonial situation of Namibia, the islands in the South Pacific, Puerto Rico and other Caribbean territories bear witness. It is for this Organization, together with the struggling peoples of those territories, to speed the hour of their final liberation. Throughout these four decades the United Nations system has been strengthened and extended. Its specialized agencies have been responsible for important achievements in several fields of international relations and especially in the process of decolonization. Such agencies as the United Nations Educational, Scientific land Cultural Organization, the united Nations Children's Fund, the United Nations Development program, the world Health Organization, the United Nations Fund for Population Activities, the World Food Council and the United Nations Environment program have made valuable contributions to cur countries' development and to understanding among the peoples."
"The United Nations has been and still is the ideal forum in which to discuss the problems of economic development and international' economic relations. If there have not been greater achievements, that is due not to any fault on the part of the Organization but to the lack of political will on the part of some Western countries. The Declaration and program of Action on the establishment of a new international economic order are historic documents whose implementation would radically modify international relations."
"In spite of its limitations, the Security Council is a useful instrument for watching over the preservation of international peace and security. Those limitations, it must be admitted, stem from the correlation of forces throughout the world and from the existence of a small number of imperialist States which refuse to give up their privileges, spheres of influence and hegemonist ambitions."
"The abuse of the rule of unanimity - the veto - has prevented the imposition of sanctions against Israel and South Africa for their acts of aggression against independent Arab and African countries, respectively, and for South Africa's refusal to abide by the United Nations resolutions on Namibia and the policies and practice of apartheid."
"Nevertheless,' the fact remains that the United Nations has managed to prevent the outbreak of another world war, and this, in itself, has been a major contribution to the cause of peace."
"In expressing its full support for all efforts to strengthen and extend the United Nations system and to reinforce its role in solving the main problems with which mankind is faced in the fields of economics, health, education^ science, culture, information and communications, and in preserving international peace and security, Cuba denounces the policies of pressure and blackmail that have been applied against the united Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and other specialized agencies; these constitute an attack on multi-lateralism and on the united Nations system itself."
"The campaigns which have been waged against our Organization in the United States and in other western countries are not aimed at making healthy or even necessary criticism in order to increase the efficiency and the results or productivity of the system; rather, they seek to undermine and destroy it because it is a forum in which contemporary problems can be taken up and solved. We are and always will be opposed to any attempt to reduce, weigh down or prevent the important work of the United Nations and its specialized agencies in their different fields."
"We feel that one of the most outstanding achievements of the last few years has been the adoption of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, signed by 159 countries and ratified by 21 to date. In this regard, the position of the united States Government - which refused to sign it - and its decision to grant licenses to private corporations to engage in prospecting activities in parts of the Zone, in violation of General Assembly resolution 2749 (XXV) and of article 137 of the Convention, should be vigorously condemned by the international community."
"He are in favor of the establishment of the new international information and communications order as an invaluable contribution to the cause of decolonization in this vital area of relations among peoples; we are also in favor of scientific education and the free and thorough education of the human person. The peoples' basic rights include the right to self-determination, development, work and an independent life."
"Sports are also a right of the people and it is high time for them to be practiced by all, on an equal footing, without hierarchies or small groups deciding on where sports events shall be held and who will participate in them, without consulting the people. He believe that the United Nations is the appropriate Organization for promoting sports, since its universal nature makes it the depository par excellence of the high ideals of the Olympic Games."
"The Cuban people, which has been constructing socialism 90 miles from the strongest imperialist Power for the last 26 years and has managed to withstand every blow with firmness and heroism and victoriously to defend its independence and national sovereignty, is still ready to set aside its tools and take up weapons with who to defend itself and to defeat whoever attempts to conquer its territory."
"On reiterating our support for the United Nations on the fortieth anniversary of its founding, we also reiterate our faith in justice, freedom, independence, development and equality for all people. As Jose Marti said, \"Man is more than race, more than white or black.\" The Cuban Revolution is for this universal man; for mankind without exploited or exploiters; and for peace for all States, both large and small."
"Today, to this august assembly, we reiterate our firm commitment to struggle tirelessly, alongside the United Nations, for the construction of a better world."
"The Heads of State or Government, meeting in Harare, Zimbabwe during the eighth summit Conference of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, expressed their deep concern over the acceleration in nuclear rearmament, and stated that never before had mankind been so close to self-destruction, and that the alternative today is not between peace or war, but between life and death. It is in those circumstances that the forty-first session of the United Nations General Assembly takes place."
"In his address to the Harare Summit, President Fidel Castro said:"
"\"Our world faces two deadly and hitherto unknown dilemmas, peace or total self-destruction, and a just international economic order or the most horrible fate for the vast majority of the peoples of the earth represented here, even if peace prevailed.\""
"That state of affairs is the legacy the consequence, of the centuries during which our peoples suffered exploitation, plunder and slavery, imposed first by the colonial Powers and then by the neo-colonialists and the imperialists. We have fought for centuries to shake the yoke of foreign domination, to attain freedom and independence, to achieve the right to strive for development. That battle is not over yet. Everywhere around the world, the stubborn refusal of the main developed capitalist countries to accept the true independence of our peoples is evident."
"That is the explanation of the nuclear rearmament policy, the uninterrupted development of new weapons of mass destruction, the accumulation of every type of strategic bombers, aircraft carriers, battleships, submarines, and strategic missiles, and of the installation of military bases all over the world by the imperialists who, not content with militarizing our planet, are also attempting to militarize outer space."
"The deployment of weapons, on earth and in space, is aimed at maintaining or recovering their military predominance and superiority, in order to continue to exploit the human and natural resources of the world. The United States leads and promotes this terrible process which is threatening the world with war and hunger, with nuclear destruction and endless poverty. Enormous sacrifices have been required to deal with that situation."
"\"Socialism, intrinsically, is incompatible with war, with the exploitation of the sweat and natural resources of other peoples. Socialism does not need to make investments abroad, to establish military bases outside its borders, or to carve up the world. It does not need to produce weapons to give impetus to the economy and enrich monopolies; it knows perfectly well that resources can and should be invested in factories, hospitals, schools, homes, recreation and cultural centers, and other more noble endeavors. The heaviest burden imperialism has imposed on socialism is the need for arms expenditure, as my country, only a few miles away from the United States, knows it all too well.\""
"In Harare at the eighth summit Conference of the Non-Aligned Movement, the Heads of State or Government expressed their concern over the rapid acceleration of the arms race, especially in the nuclear field. They expressed their deep concern over the announcement by the United States Administration that it would not abide by the provisions of the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty of 1979 (SALT II). They called upon the United States Administration to reconsider the attempts to take the arms race into outer space and strongly reaffirmed the principle that outer space is the common heritage of mankind and should be used only for peaceful purposes. They welcomed the comprehensive and timely nuclear disarmament Program, with a phased timetable and various deadlines, recently proposed by the Soviet Union. They called for a moratorium in the production and deployment of nuclear weapons while negotiations for a nuclear-test-ban treaty were under way. They welcomed the unilateral moratorium on nuclear tests declared by the Soviet Union in August 1985, which has been extended several times, most recently, until January 1987;"
"Cuba wishes to take this occasion to reiterate its firm support for those demands, which enjoy the support of the Non-Aligned Movement, which virtually means the support of mankind as a whole."
"The abundant resources now invested in the arms race could well be devoted to improve the quality of life of human beings, millions of whom suffer from hunger, and from lack of medical care, employment, education and social welfare."
"Aware of the significance of the link between disarmament and economic and social development, Cuba regrets that the international conference on that question, which had been scheduled for last August, was not convened,; and looks forward to the adoption of the relevant decisions needed so that it can be convened and meet without fail in 1987."
"The continuing world economic crisis whose cruel consequences are felt above all by the under developed countries, continues to cause deep concern. Despite years of efforts, despite the good will and flexibility that developing countries have displayed in multilateral organizations, it is shameful that they are still coming up against a lack of political resolve in developed capitalist countries, particularly in the United States, to begin a just and reasonable negotiating process to deal with and solve the problems of international economic relations."
"The economic picture in 1985, and so far in 1986, and its main trends, confirms that the continuance of the present system of international economic relations perpetuates a state of economic instability and crisis. Even in industrialized countries an unprecedented imbalance in trade and financial relations was recorded during this period, while the net transfer of resources from developing to developed countries continued."
"The majority of underdeveloped countries experienced negative or zero growth in their per capita gross national product in 1985. In Latin America, in particular, national income per capita decreased for the fifth consecutive year; and in the case of Africa this indicator is lower now than it was 15 years ago."
"Sustained high interest rates, increased trade protectionism, growing manipulation of commodity prices, including the collapse of oil prices, to which there is no end in sight and which has had disastrous effects on the economies of many underdeveloped countries, as well as monetary speculation and unilateral variations in exchange rates, are evidence of an international economic order which is unjust and at a critical stage."
"Unequal flows, the increasing deterioration of the terms of trade, subsidized agricultural production, dumping and the flight of capital to the major financial centers in the United States and Western Europe are problems which, far from being resolved, have become more entrenched in the system, thus widening the abyss between developed and developing countries."
"Several years ago before this Assembly President Fidel Castro defined the untenable situation and the nature of the foreign debt as plunder. At the fortieth session of the Assembly my delegation joined other heads of delegations, including a great number of Heads of State or Government, to draw attention to the alarming nature of the third world's foreign debt as epitomizing, the distortions I have described. A large number of the delegations present expressed the opinion that the disproportionate external indebtedness of developing countries was a product of the old, unjust and irrational order prevailing in international economic relations, we stated that the decisive solution of this problem was essential and could not be postponed, and that it was an illusion to think that it could be resolved through mere palliatives, debt renegotiation and traditional prescriptions."
"Only a few days ago, at the already historic eighth summit Conference of non-aligned countries, the Heads of State or Government of a large number of third-world countries confirmed this reasoning in their statements and decisions and reiterated their alarm at the political and social consequences which the persistence and growth of the foreign debt could have."
"For some time now, Cuba has referred, on the basis of criteria and data analytically drawn from internationally recognized sources, to the unpayable and noncollectable nature of the debt. Recent world economic, social and political developments confirm our contention."
"Today, the foreign debt of developing countries is a far more serious problem than it was a year ago. It is larger, the possibilities of repayment are even less, and a number of economic, social and natural problems have compounded and complicated the difficulties of the situation. Credit terms offered by international financial institutions have not improved, economic growth is not gaining momentum and development faces ever greater obstacles. In sum, the crucial demands made by developing countries in various groups and forums have been rejected or ignored and the political and social dangers already foreseen are becoming ever more threatening."
"In this context, the imperialists continue to strive to preserve their interests. The United States Government's much lauded Baker plan proved inadequate and not in keeping with the magnitude of the problem."
"As the Non-Aligned Movement and the Group of 77 have repeatedly said, the foreign debt is a political problem, the roots of which are to be found in the unjust international economic order impressed on us. Responsibility for its solution must be shared by the developed creditor countries and the international financial and banking institutions."
"In line with historical and present reality, we are, in the final analysis, compelled to reiterate that our countries are not debtors but creditors; creditors because of the sweat, the blood and the wealth extracted from our peoples during centuries of the colonial exploitation that led to the development of today's powerful capitalist economies; creditors because of the resources stolen from us, day after day, through unfair trade; creditors because of the capital which flows from our countries towards developed countries in search of what are inordinately high and unjust interest rates."
"The United Nations cannot remain aloof or fail to contribute actively to the solution of this problem. If its main organ, the General Assembly, did not devote the greatest attention to this matter it would be failing to fulfill its duties under the Charter."
"Cuba reaffirms once again its firm conviction that the foreign debt of the third world cannot be paid and must, therefore, be written off; that the resources required to meet these obligations without affecting the financial community might be found in a reasonable reduction in expenditure on armaments, which endangers the lives of all human beings, rich and poor alike; and that the sole, real and lasting solution to this and other similar problems relating to the survival of the majority of the people on this planet lies in development and the implementation of the new international economic order approved by this Assembly in 1974."
"He repeatedly ask ourselves how long the peoples can endure this heavy burden; how long it will be before the international community takes effective action to save the lives of millions of people and provide a more dignified life for many more whose existence is now short and painful? What should the United Nations role be in this endeavor?"
"He hope that the forty-first session of the General Assembly will give new life to the principles and instruments adopted on this question, such as the new international economic order, the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States and the International Development strategies, which continue to have full validity. We look forward to the ratification of the Convention on the Law of the Sea by all States, to prevent the indiscriminate exploitation of the oceans and sea-bed by imperialist countries possessing sophisticated technologies. We hope that serious thought will be given to these matters by those that wish to perpetuate an order which endangers the peace and stability of the world we all share."
"The history of Latin America is to a large extent a history of united States aggression against Latin American peoples for the purpose of plundering their natural resources and subjecting them to domination. Many chapters in that long and sad history refer to Cuba. For 25 years, and to this day, the United States has continued to impose an illegal economic blockade against our country, a blockade that has been extended by the present Administration. It continues to conduct spy flights, in violation of our air space, and the Guantanamo Naval Base, a putrid excrescence of empire, remains entrenched on our territory, against the expressed will of our people and Government."
"A similar and more recent case is that of Nicaragua, whose right to self-determination is violated by continued acts of aggression organized and financed by the United States with the support of its allies in the region. The dirty war against the people of Sandino has caused the Nicaraguans heavy losses and led the Latin American peoples and States to understand ever more clearly that, as long as imperialism persists, they will suffer the same fate as the Nicaraguan people when they choose to take the road towards true independence."
"We recently witnessed the predominance of the United States Government when it unscrupulously vetoed a draft resolution in which the Security Council requested strict observance of the findings of the International Court of Justice related to activities against Nicaragua. In Harare, the Heads of State or Government of the non-aligned countries condemned the rejection of the Court's decision by the United States Administration as a flouting of international law."
"Mankind must not allow a country - no matter how powerful - to violate international law with impunity. Disregard for the Court's findings and the subsequent veto of a draft resolution in the Security Council are further steps in the United States aggressive escalation in the region which deserves our strongest condemnation."
"The history of the more than seven years that have elapsed since the triumph of the Sandinista Revolution has shown the flexible negotiating position of the Nicaraguan Government, while revealing the real designs of the present United States Administration, which obstructs peace efforts to achieve a negotiated political settlement tb the Central American crisis."
"At their Summit Conference, the non-aligned countries expressed condemnation of the escalation of aggression and attacks against Nicaragua, particularly the violation of its airspace and territorial waters, the holding of international maneuvers and other acts of intimidation, the use of neighboring countries as bases for aggression and the training of mercenary groups. They term those actions \"terrorist practices\". They likewise condemned as illegal and immoral the United States appropriation of funds to finance mercenary forces, while emphasizing that it is not only a violation of Nicaragua's sovereignty and independence but also an attack on the principles and objectives of the Non-Aligned Movement and a violation of the United Nations Charter."
"The crisis in El Salvador is ever more serious. Despite United States imperialist's sustained support for the genocidal regime, the people's support for the struggle of Salvadorian patriots rallied around the Farabundo Marti Front for National Liberation-Revolutionary Democratic Front (FMLN-FDR) continues to grow."
"The Eighth Summit Conference of the Non-Aligned Movement, recalling General Assembly resolution 39/119 which called on all States to refrain from interference in the internal affairs of El Salvador, reiterated its appeal to the United States Administration to take a constructive stand in favor of a political solution of the Salvadorian conflict."
"Cuba supports a negotiated settlement to the conflict in Central America, including a United States commitment to renounce its aggressive actions against the Nicaraguan people and favor a negotiated political solution in El Salvador."
"My country supports Latin American efforts to seek a negotiated solution in the context of which action by the Contadora and Support Groups, in spite of all the difficulties, are an expression of the wish of Latin American countries that their sovereignty be respected without the interference of the big Power to the North."
"Our America has been the theater of imperialist intervention. If we were to mention all United States interventions in Latin America - from Mexico to Argentina, from Cuba to Grenada, from the Dominican Republic and Haiti to Colombia"
"and should we include the regimes installed or kept in power through open imperialist intervention, the map of the continent would be filled in without exception."
"We must therefore reiterate our solidarity with the struggle for independence, freedom and development of the peoples of our region; with the heroic Chilean people, facing the cruel and pro-imperialist Pinochet regime, which has currently stepped up terror and repression and for which, sooner rather than later, the great vistas depicted by Salvador Allende shall be open; with Peru, that suffers pressures from the International Monetary Fund (IMF); with Panama, that demands respect for the Canal Agreements and faces an imperialist campaign of destabilization; wit** Bolivia, claiming its right to a recognized, useful, sovereign and free outlet to the sea; with Guatemala, which for more than 30 years has been suffering the most cruel repression by pro-imperialist military regimes which assassinated more than 80,000 citizens and labeled them as \"missing\"; with Paraguay, where the long-standing Stroessner tyranny drains the nation's blood; with Haiti, striving to get rid of a \"made in USA\" Duvalierism without Duvalier; with all the peoples who have had to face the consequences of imperialist penetration and domination."
"We condemn the presence of imperialist military bases in Puerto Rico, Guantanamo, the Malvinas Islands and other parts of our America, which are a true threat to the security of our countries and to peace in the region. As President Fidel Castro recently said:"
"\"In the Middle East and the North of Africa, Cuba has been, is and will always be in solidarity with the just struggle of the Arab peoples, victims of imperialist and Zionist aggression. Cuba resolutely supports the Palestine"
"Liberation Organization (PLO) and embraces the noble cause of the Palestinian people and their right to independence and a national State. Disregard of those rights cannot last forever nor will it be possible to envisage peace in the Middle East while such monstrous injustice continues to exist.\" Cuba calls for the convening under United Nations auspices of an international peace conference on the Middle East, with the participation of all the parties concerned, including the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO)."
"Earlier this year we condemned the unjustified act of aggression against Libya by the United States which left a toll of hundreds of dead and wounded and many material losses. Regrettably, this Organization was unable to condemn that despicable act because of the abuse by sense countries of their veto power in the Security Council."
"Cuba reiterates its well-known stand on the need to persevere in efforts to put an end to the Iraq-Iran war, establish peace and initiate the process of recovery from the damages caused by a conflict which should never have begun."
"Cuba supports the just cause of the Lebanese people for national unity and peace. It supports the people of Cyprus in its struggle to defend its national unity, sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-alignment."
"Cuba reiterates its repudiation of-the continued United States military presence in Taiwan, an inseparable part of the People's Republic of China."
"Cuba expresses its strongest solidarity with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in its struggle for the peaceful reunification of the country and the withdrawal of United States occupation troops from the South of the peninsula. We reiterate our position that the next Olympic Games should be shared by North and South Korea, otherwise Cuba shall not participate in an event which will serve only to support one of the most repressive and discredited regimes in the world. Cuba supports efforts to seek a negotiated political solution to the situation in South-West Asia, with strict respect for Afghanistan's sovereignty."
"In the present world millions of human beings long for peace. However, a look around us suffices to realize the extent to which mankind is threatened today by war and destruction."
"In fact it is not a question of one war but of many wars provoked by colonialism, which refuses to disappear, and by neo-colonialism, which has followed it."
"The Sahraoui people are still unable to exercise their right to self-determination and independence, notwithstanding their readiness to negotiate a just and definitive solution to the conflict in their region. The fighters of the Polisario Front, representatives of the people of the Sahraoui Arab Democratic Republic, are faced with the obstinate refusal by the Government of Morocco to discuss the implementation of the resolutions of the Organization of African Unity and of the General Assembly. My country reaffirms its support for the Sahraoui people and urges the countries which have not yet done so to recognize the Sahraoui Arab Democratic Republic."
"A similar situation developed in the south Atlantic with the British military occupation of the Malvinas Islands, which in 1982 brought mourning to two States Members of this Organization. The united Nations has been unable to ratify Argentina's sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands only because of the United Kingdom's refusal to recognize it and its insistence on perpetuating that colonial anachronism. Several resolutions by this Assembly provide for a negotiated solution of this dispute, which should be settled through negotiations as soon as possible."
"Puerto Rico continues to be under the colonial domination of the United States of America despite the subterfuges by consecutive United States administrations to cover up that fact. Recently the United Nations Committee on decolonization adopted a resolution on the colonial situation of the people of that country, recognizing their right to independence and self-determination, their Latin American and national identity, and the need for the Committee to continue to devote its attention to the issue after having heard several dozen petitioners,"
"representing all political views in the country, all of whom agreed that Puerto Rico was a united States dependency and therefore was fully entitled to choose freely its political status."
"Before concluding my statement I should like to mention an issue which will undoubtedly have a bearing on our work. We are taking part in this forty-first session under the shadow of the financial uncertainty created by the policy of blackmail and pressure exerted by the United States Government against democratic multilateral organizations. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has already been under such pressure because of its work, which is consistent with the will of the international majority, and we are now witnessing new attempts by the United States Government to undermine the principles of the United Nations through immoral pressure which constitutes blatant violations of the Charter. It is true that the Organization requires administrative and managerial adjustments, but it is sheer fiction to call a political phenomenon, which has its roots in the design of one Government to subject the action of States in United Nations forums to its own will, a \"financial crisis\". The Kassel um amendment and other legal schemes of the United States roust not hang over our heads"
"The problem we are facing is political and therefore it requires political solutions. Cuba will do its best to contribute to an improvement of the administrative and budgetary management of the Organization and will support any initiative honestly aimed in that direction. At the same time, Cuba will condemn and oppose actions which are directed against the democratic integrity of the"
"Organization or which try to suppress, weaken or derail Programs of interest to the majority of the States Members of the United Nations."
"At this time when the future of the United Nations is threatened, it is imperative that all those who believe in the Organization should .reassert its principles and support its work on behalf of peace, development and the well-being of our peoples."
"Only a week ago, from this rostrum, we expressed Cuba's views regarding the situation in southern Africa. We reiterated our solidarity with the struggle of the peoples of South Africa and Namibia against apartheid and for freedom and independence. Twenty years have elapsed since the United Nations terminated South Africa's Mandate over Namibia and assumed direct responsibility for the Territory. Since then, that decision has been ratified by the Security Council and many international organizations. The International Court of Justice, for its part, has declared that the continued occupation of Namibia by South Africa is illegal and constitutes a violation of international law. The United Nations has been quite clear concerning the obligation of South Africa to withdraw from Namibia and by resolution 435 (1978) it adopted a universally accepted plan for the establishment of Namibia's independence."
"Efforts by the international community have, however, come up against the arrogance of racist South Africa which, protected by its shameless alliance with the Government of the United States and supported by other members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), has not only remained illegally in Namibia -where it has also set up the heinous apartheid system - but has also turned it into a launching pad for its acts of aggression against independent neighboring States, in particular against the People's Republic of Angola, making southern Africa one of the most dangerous centers of tension today."
"As President Fidel Castro aptly pointed out,"
"\"Apartheid is a direct consequence of the colonial system, of the brutal manner in which the African peoples were forcibly deprived of their lands and natural resources and their children enslaved and sold the world over. Apartheid has endured solely because of the support extended to it by the United States and NATO countries, which have in South Africa a strategic ally, a source of raw materials, a market for investments and profits for the transnational corporations, at the expense of the sweat and blood of millions of Africans.\""
"Therein lies the meaning of the commitment of those countries to Pretoria: defense of the sordid interests of their corporations, it is truly a commitment to destroy human dignity, to exclude all possibility of independence, to spread the cancer of apartheid to the rest of the continent and to subject it to neo-colonial and imperialist exploitation. For that reason the struggle for Namibia's independence necessarily requires the eradication of apartheid."
"The powerful movement that threatens to bring down the corrupt structure of the opprobrious system in South Africa and crown with victory the heroic struggle of the Namibian people is now joined by an international consensus in favor of the immediate implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978) and of the imposition of sanctions on South Africa to compel it to abide by the will of the United Nations."
"President Fidel Castro proclaimed at Havana:"
"\"Both the Yankee imperialists and the South African racists are doing everything possible to have Cuban internationalist troops withdraw from Angola and are trying to make their withdrawal a condition of Namibia's independence. The Governments of Angola and Cuba have jointly replied:"
"Implement resolution 435 (1978) on Namibia, cease all threats against Angola, stop the foul war and support for mercenaries: then the gradual withdrawal of the 20,000 Cuban fighters who are defending strategic lines in southern Angola will begin. The rest of the Cuban military personnel will be withdrawn only when the sovereign Governments of Angola and Cuba deem it unconditionally proper.'\""
"\"The true key to the question is that as long as apartheid exists in South Africa, as long as that country is ruled by a racist and fascist Government there will be no security for Angola or for any other country in southern Africa and the independence of Namibia will be nothing more than fiction.\" I must reiterate that Cuba is ready to stay in Angola, in fulfillment of its internationalist duties, for as long as necessary - that is to say, until threats against the territorial integrity, independence and sovereignty of Angola have ceased, until apartheid has disappeared and Namibia is independent."
"The tine has come to translate words into action. This Assembly oust demand that the comprehensive mandatory sanctions envisaged in Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter be imposed against the racist South African regime. The so-called linkage, which the imperialists and their partners in Pretoria use as a pretext for obstructing Namibia's independence, must be firmly rejected. The Security Council must ensure the implementation without further delay of resolution 435 (1978). We must condemn the shameful alliance of imperialism and Herr Botha's Boer fascism and demand the immediate cessation of the in famous imperialist support for apartheid. It is absolutely necessary to increase and broaden the economic, political and military assistance to the liberation movements in southern Africa so that they may continue to wage successfully their liberation war for independence and social justice and against racist fascism and apartheid. Further, we must strengthen our political and material solidarity with the front-line States in their struggle against the aggression of the apartheid regime."
"Each day, each hour, that brings us closer to the collapse of apartheid in South Africa will be one day, one hour, less of blood and pain for the peoples who suffer under and struggle against oppression and of shame for mankind."
"Those peoples and their struggling vanguards share the glory - as President Fidel Castro asserted in Harare -"
"\"of having shown the world that today, as yesterday and tomorrow, nothing can stop the march of history; no force in the world can keep human dignity and freedom indefinitely in chains\"."
NA
NA
NA
NA
"My delegation expresses its warmest congratulations to you, Sir, a worthy representative of the German Democratic Republic - a bastion of peace and socialism in Europe - on your assumption of the presidency of this important forty-second session of the General Assembly."
"We have all heard with great satisfaction about the positive results of the talks held in Washington between the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the USSR, Comrade Eduard Shevardnadze, and the Secretary of State of the United States, Mr. George Shultz. The progress made towards an agreement on the banning of medium- and short-range missiles by the United States and the USSR deserves our fervent best wishes. It is the result of the efforts made for many years by the USSR - and especially of the initiatives of the General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, Comrade Mikhail Gorbachev - and the efforts of the peace-loving forces to halt the arms race and eliminate the dangers of nuclear confrontation."
"A long time has passed since the signing of the last disarmament agreement, and we look forward to the early completion of the agreement to which I have just referred, so that it may initiate a process to end the arms race, a process for peace and life."
"The meeting held in the Federal Republic of Germany between the President of the Council of State and Ministers of the German Democratic Republic, Comrade Erich Honecker, and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr. Helmut Kohl, constitutes a meaningful expression of a new moment of hope in our international relations and of a desire to initiate a new trend towards dialogue, understanding and co-operation. This is a time for advancing negotiations to solve the conflicts and disputes of recent years, which have created hotbeds of tension jeopardizing the future of mankind."
"Sadly, in a few days our America will mark the twentieth anniversary of the death of an illustrious son of our continent, whom the people of Cuba have the fortune of counting as one of their best offspring and from whose legacy of ideas and action we have benefited. I should like to recall the following paragraph of the outstanding statement delivered by Commander Ernesto Che Guevara to the General Assembly at its session 23 years ago: \"We realize that today the Assembly is not in a position to demand explanations for ... acts) yet it must be clearly established that the Government of the United States is not the guardian of liberty, but rather that it is perpetuating the exploitation and oppression of many of the world's peoples and of many of its own citizens\". (Official Records of the General Assembly, Nineteenth Seas ion> 1299 the plenary meeting, para. 135) That assertion was an expression of its time. The reality is that the trends of the policies of successive United States Administrations - zigzagging but not changing in their essence - have not differed in any way from that definition, which has become even more valid in recent years."
"Between 1981 and 1985, the present United States Administration managed, at a specific historical juncture, to implement a brutal and aggressive policy aimed at imposing contested imperialist values through the use and threat of force and the obstruction of the negotiation process, thereby preventing progress on disarmament agreements and the solution of regional problems, and with the overt purpose of imposing its military superiority and hegemony over the socialist community."
"Reagan, in a unique and exemplary manner worthy of better endeavours, implemented and followed the essence, spirit and letter of the Santa Fe programme. This May 1980 Santa Fe programme undoubtedly represented the philosophy of pillage, the expansion of so-called spheres of influence and the prevalence of force in international relations. The direct reflection of this policy was soon evidenced in the arms race. Between 1980 and 1986 the military budget of the United States doubled. In essence, the Santa Fe document stated that \"war and not peace is the rule in international affairs\", that \"detente is death\", and that the United States did not have to struggle to preserve the status quo but, rather, had to struggle to improve its relative position in all spheres of influence."
"Reagan, with an apparent halo of success - having obtained barely 26.7 per cent of the votes in the United States - intoxicated by power and the prospect of playing a leading role in history, launched a truly anachronistic and senseless crusade, which was tolerated or supported by his main allies. Important agreements that had been reached as a result of perseverance, consistency and realism in approaching the international situation were denounced or rejected - for example, the significant SALT II agreements. Tensions in international relations increased, thereby adding fuel to the fire of various international conflicts. Reagan proclaimed and exalted his alliance with dictatorial regimes and with the supporters of the most ignoble causes in southern Africa and the Middle East, in Central America and the Caribbean, in the southern part of the American continent. In so doing, he stopped all criticism and condemnation of human-rights violations by his allies, for the purpose of protecting an alliance devoid of principles or decency."
"Anyone who took up arms against the independence of peoples had the support of the United States. Whenever a banner was hoisted in favour of independence and social justice, the United States tried to force it down. Accordingly, it increased its acts of aggression against Nicaragua, its threats against Cuba and its support of the Zionists in the Middle East, as well as its close solidarity with the racists in Pretoria and with the Savimbi and Rename bandits in Angola and Mozambique. It closed ranks with British imperialists in the military occupation of the Malvinas Islands - which jeopardized the credibility of the Rio Treaty - and invaded the tiny island of Grenada, in its best gunboat style. In that period, the Israeli invasion of Lebanon and the siege of Beirut took place prominent international leaders such as Indira Gandhi and Olof Palme were assassinated; the USSR suffered in a very short time the loss of its top State and Party leaders, Comrade Leonid Brezhnev and his successors, Comrades Andropov and Chernienko. The summit conferences of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and the Organization of African Unity could not be held as scheduled.	\""
"The Reagan Administration, Imbued with a spirit of victory, its eyes and ears closed to world realities, tried to demonstrate that \"in war there is no substitute for victory\", in conformity with Mr. Reagan's view that the mistake of the Viet Nam war was not to have waged it but to have lost it."
"Such triumphalism met with serious obstacles at the end of 1986, when Reagan suffered major defeats inside and outside the United States which shook his already dubious credibility and his unquestionable power. Early in October he suffered his greatest setback in foreign policy - soon to be more than surpassed - when, respectively, the House of Representatives and the Senate, the latter still with a Republican majority, overruled the presidential veto of economic sanctions against South Africa. That veto was inspired by the fallacy of \"constructive engagement\", or \"silent diplomacy\", proclaimed by Reagan. In the November legislative elections, the Democrats regained the majority in the Senate and strengthened their control over the House of Representatives, despite Reagan's personal efforts, his 40,000 kilometres of travel and his visits to 18 States. That significant defeat coincided with huge budget and trade deficits and the forecasts of a forthcoming economic recession, in November the so-called Irangate and Contragate manure bomb  exploded, with brutal virulence. The final act of this tragicomedy has yet to be played out."
"At the same time, there were major political processes and developments aimed at the relaxation of international tensions and at the opening of a new era of understanding among States - although many of the processes had originated years before, and some had found a sympathetic hearing in the General Assembly."
"Let us recall some of those milestones."
"Addressing the thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly in his capacity as Chairman and on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, Commander Fidel Castro presented the all-important demands of the underdeveloped world. He said at that time: \"... unequal exchange is ruining and impoverishing our peoples and must cease. Inflation, which is being exported to us, is impoverishing our peoples and must cease. Protectionism impoverishes our peoples and must cease. The existing imbalance in the exploitation of sea resources is abusive and must be abolished. The financial resources received by the developing countries are insufficient and must be increased. Arms expenditures are irrational; they must cease and the funds thus released must be used to finance development. The international monetary system prevailing today is bankrupt and must be replaced. The debts of the least developed countries and of those in a disadvantageous position are burdens which are impossible to bear and to which no solution can be found and they must be cancelled. Indebtedness oppresses the rest of the developing countries economically and must be relieved. The wide economic gap between the developed countries and the countries seeking development, instead of diminishing, is being widened and must be closed ... . (A/34/PV. 31, pp. 42 and 43-45)"
"Eight years have passed since then. The only thing that has changed is that the unequal exchange is even more unequal) the ruin of our peoples as a result of inflation and protectionism is worsening; the imbalance in the exploitation of the resources of the sea is abusive; the allocation of financial resources to the developing countries is diminishing and is tragically insufficient) the international monetary system remains bankrupt) the debt of the relatively least developed countries has long since gone beyond rationality and simply cannot be paid. In short, the economic gap between developed and developing countries is wider and has grown unbridgeable."
"When the Contadora Group was established in January 1983 it was like a wind of hope amidst the imperial storm. Its aim was to contribute to a peaceful, political, negotiated solution to the Central American conflict it was later joined by the Support Group and was recently enhanced by the important Esquipulas II agreements."
"The seventh summit Conference of Non-Aligned Countries took place in New Delhi in March 1983. That summit conveyed a clear message, and took a firm anti-imperialist, anti-colonialist stand against Zionism, racism and apartheid, in favour of peace and of the peaceful negotiated solution of international disputes, against the arms race and the rule of force, and in support of a new international economic order."
"Also in March, but March 1985, Mikhail Gorbachev was elected General-Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, He gave the socialist society of that great country new ideas and a realistic and dynamic stand in the present world, with new approaches and methods for the creative application of the Soviet principles of peace, disarmament and coexistence under present conditions."
"Very soon the influence of solid proposals oriented towards disarmament and the establishment of a climate of dtente, of international safeguards and security - in other words, a climate of peaceful coexistence - was felt. Among them are the Vladivostok proposals and the August 1985 unilateral moratorium, broadened at the Reykjavik meeting of October 1986 , where Comrade Mikhail Gorbachev proposed, among other important ideas, the working out of a draft agreement aimed at reducing strategic weapons by not less than 50 per cent and eliminating them completely during this century."
"However, Reagan's stubbornness in attempting to perpetuate the strategic defence initiative, which includes research and testing in outer space and opens a new era in the arms race, frustrated the possibility of reaching agreement at that epoch-making meeting. But we should not be pessimistic. The Reykjavik meeting proved that, at this crucial time for mankind, dialogue is both possible and necessary and that open, realistic dialogue not aimed at the military superiority of one side over the other may lead to agreement."
"In June 1986 the International Court of Justice decided in favour of ending military activities against Nicaragua."
"The Organization of African Unity (OAU) summit conferences resumed. The chairmanship passed from Abdou Diouf of Senegal in 1985, to Denis Sassou-Nguesso of Congo, Chairman for 1986, and recently to Kenneth Kaunda, President of Zambia and current Chairman of that outstanding organization."
"The eighth summit Conference of Non-Aligned Countries, held in Zimbabwe in September 1986, confirmed the firmness of its principles in the struggle against imperialism, colonialism, neo-colonialism, against racism, including Zionism, and apartheid. The summit, which took place in a country bordering the racist Pretoria regime, constituted an exceptional expression of the international will to eliminate apartheid and attain the independence of Namibia. It also gave new impetus to the struggle for international peace and security, for the establishment of a new international economic order, for disarmament and for the development of third-world countries."
"Since the Harare summit Conference, the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries has continued its intense activity, focusing on the issues of greatest Importance and tension, namely the peace message addressed to the General-Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, Comrade Gorbachev, by the Heads of State or Government and its delivery to the Government of the United States; the New Delhi meeting of Heads of State or Government of the Africa Fund Committee and its appeal for strengthened support for the struggle of the front-line States and liberation movements in southern Africa) the decision of the extraordinary meeting of the Co-ordinating Bureau on the situation in Latin America and the Caribbean, and, most recently, the visit to Nicaragua of the Foreign Minister of Zimbabwe during the meeting of the Contadora and Support Group Foreign Ministers, to reiterate our solidarity in support of a peaceful solution of the Central American conflict and our rejection of the United States aggression and Interference in the region; the solidarity, expressed at the meeting of the Committee of Nine on Palestine, with the struggle of the Palestinian people to exercise their rights and establish an independent State in their homeland, and in favour of the early convening of an international conference on peace in the Middle East; and the Brioni meeting of non-aligned Mediterranean States and its appeal for the strengthening of co-operation"
"In June 1987, at the Extraordinary Ministerial Conference of Non-Aligned Countries on South-South Co-operation, the Pyongyang Declaration and Plan of Action for economic co-operation was signed; simultaneously, at Harare, the Conference of Ministers of Information advocated the establishment of a new information order. On 7 August, the five Central American Presidents signed the epoch-making Esquipulas II agreements with an express will to search for peace in the region."
NA
"Between 1981 and 1986 - as evidence of the rejection by nations of the United States policy of force - the voting pattern of all regional groups in the United Nations showed less coincidence with United States votes. The number of Member States whose votes coincided with those of the United States in more than 60 per cent of the time declined by more than half. That is, only half the countries which voted with the United States more than 60 per cent of the time in 1980 did so in 1986 - and their number was small. Moreover, at the forty-first session only 10 countries voted with the United States more than 60 per cent of the time."
"The deterioration in the living conditions of the peoples of the third world, the increasing erosion of their economies and the worsening inequalities in the terms of trade in the Western industrialized world continue their galloping course. The international economic situation, particularly that of third-world countries, has become untenable. The low prices of major commodities} the protectionist measures applied by highly industrialized countries  the escalating increase in external debt and interest rates and the curtailment of external financing and the conditionality of lending by the International Monetary Round and the World Bank, including supervision of the domestic policies of recipient countries - all paint a gloomy picture of the prospects of underdeveloped countries."
"Moreover, the spiralling arms race has further aggravated this dramatic economic picture and the prospects for development."
"In late August and early September, the International Conference on the Relationship between Disarmament and Development was held. It affirmed the need to seek a solution to such an urgent situation. At the same time the idea that there will be no peace without development is, in Cartesian language, an obvious and inescapable truth. Cuba welcomes the positive results of that Conference, which, though marked by the absence of the United States, which bears principal responsibility for the arms race, nevertheless engaged in a complex, delicate and constructive negotiating process in which recognition of the inevitable link between disarmament and development and of the urgent need to devote resources released by disarmament immediately to development prevailed."
"In recent years, our peoples have waged a prodigious struggle against the unbearable burden of external debt. Commander Fidel Castro, in particular, has courageously and decisively denounced that situation internationally. He has demonstrated objectively and unquestionably that the external debt is unpayable and that writing it off would not suffice to eliminate the misfortunes of our peoples unless such action was linked to the establishment of a new international economic order and to the necessary relationship between debt and disarmament."
"Many meetings attended by thousands of delegates from the most representative sectors of Latin America and the Caribbean were held in Havana in recent years with the purpose of considering and discussing, with vigour and courage, the external debt problem, economists, jurists, workers, students, journalists, women, the military, priests, peasants, statesmen and personalities in the fields of the arts and sciences with profound knowledge of the Latin American reality and actors of the drama our region is enduring participated in those meetings, which were convened in the light of historic inequalities brought about by centuries of imperialist, capitalist and neo-colonialist exploitation."
"As this brief summary shows, even if a number of particularly relevant events ace necessarily missing, these are times of hope t the seemingly successful drive of the Reagan Administration has come to a halt and fallen back} the fruitful activities of important international organizations have strengthened and a climate of negotiations is felt in Europe, Central America, southern Africa, Afghanistan and South-East Asia. We should do our utmost to keep up this momentum."
"The United Nations should contribute with all its influence to achieving peace and political solutions to conflicts and disputes among nations. The efforts undertaken by the Secretary-General, Javier Perez de Cuellar, for contributing to putting an end to the fratricidal war between Iraq and Iran are a good example of this."
"The world is facing the dilemma of peace and war. We have no right to ignore the outcry of our peoples; we have to prepare ourselves to live in peace. We have to create mechanisms which inspire and ensure confidence among peoples, security among States and peaceful and productive coexistence among nations. We have to lay the foundations for future relations so that the generations of the twenty-first century do not live in shame of their parents' legacy."
"Twenty-five years ago next October, the world was on the verge of a nuclear war. A quarter of a century later, notwithstanding the severe economic blockade imposed upon us by imperialism, notwithstanding all types of aggressions, including attempts against the lives of our leaders, notwithstanding the enormous resources used against Cuba, our revolution has been and will continue to be an unassailable bastion of Latin American dignity, firmness and fortitude."
"When the major contributor to the United Nations withholds its contribution and does not fulfil its obligations under the pretext of differences between the executive and legislative powers, it is really attempting to impose its interests on the United Nations, thus impairing the interest of the great majority of the Members of the Organization. In these circumstances, General Assembly resolution 41/213 cannot be implemented. We must demand that the United States cease this niggardly policy."
"There is no doubt that such a policy of force and blackmail has not succeeded, thanks to the unity and cohesion of dignified and independent countries, which allows us to say that multilateralism - the United Nations - continues to show, with commendable impetus, our positions, our rights and our demands in the pursuit of a world without war, of equality and equitable peace for all."
"We welcome today the negotiating will expressed by the five Central American Presidents, as reflected in the Esquipulas II Agreements, even in the face of resistance by certain circles in the present United States Administration, which attempt to maintain aggression, blockade and destabilisation against the legitimate Government of Nicaragua."
"Cuba considers that the independent attitude of the countries signatories of the Guatemala Agreement is a new event in the history of the region. The huge efforts exerted over the years by the Contadora and Support Groups in pursuit of a Latin American solution to the serious Central American crisis contributed considerably to that."
"We must pool our efforts and take concrete actions in order to achieve the implementation of those important agreements and be determined to adopt necessary measures for the economic reconstruction of Central American countries. We must continue to support the efforts of the Contadora and Support Groups in favour of peace in Central America."
"Nicaragua has the right to live in peace and is entitled to exercise its sovereign right to choose the options it deems most appropriate to satisfy its national needs. We must support those who struggle in favour of liberty and dignity in El Salvador and in every corner of a continent where the ideas of Bolivar, Marti and Juarez are increasingly reaffirmed."
"The record of these years reaffirms that the unity, firmness and awareness of the problems and of our strength to tackle them successfully is an undeniable fact. Today we may assert that the policy of confrontation is undergoing serious setbacks and we witness certain negotiating trends that, although they are slow, are making progress. This proves that our peoples are able to make their desires for peace prevail."
"We welcome negotiation efforts, such as the process aimed at achieving the dismantling of medium-range missiles in Europe, and the national reconciliation plan chartered by the Government of Afghanistan and its contacts with the United Nations Secretary-General in the search of a just and equitable solution, which will guarantee peace and security in the area."
"The Indochina's peoples in South-East Asia are working hard to find formulas leading to a peaceful negotiated process beneficial to the entire region through a flexible and constructive dialogue. We support the policy of national reconciliation formulated by the People's Republic of Kampuchea in the pursuit of peace for all its people; without distinction of class, ideology, ethnicity or religion."
"On southern Africa, as expressed on 1 August in Havana, Cuba and Angola are in a position to make their common position flexible on the basis of the principles of the November 1984 Platform and its annex, with a view to promoting the constructive aim of a just and honourable agreement which may bring about the independence of Namibia, the security of Angola and peace for all States in southern Africa."
"Cuba will maintain its stand of internationalist support and solidarity with the Government of the People's Republic of Angola in accordance with the Agreements signed with the Government of that sister nation. Cuba shall contribute to the maintenance of stability and prevention of any aggression against the People's Republic of Angola and, in an active and effective way, shall work for real peace in the region. Essential for that purpose are the independence of Namibia, under the leadership of the South West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO), its sole and legitimate representative, and the definitive elimination of the ignominious apartheid regime."
"We must redouble our efforts and render our solidarity to the people of South Africa for the total elimination of apartheid) to the people of Puerto Rico for the achievement of their freedom and independence) for the convening of the peace conference on the Middle East with the participation of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO)) and for the solution of the long and bloody conflict regarding the recognition of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people, including the establishment of its own state. There will be no solution to the Middle East conflict unless the Palestinian problem is solved, under the leadership of its sole and legitimate representative, the PLO. We should continue to support the just cause of the Lebanese people for its national unity and peace, the security of its people and respect for its territorial integrity and non-aligned status. We support demands for the withdrawal of the Moroccan troops and administration from Western Saharan territory as the essential condition to hold the referendum on the self-determination of the Sahraoui people} for Argentine sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands  for the aspiration of the Comoro Islands to recover sovereignty over Mayotte and for the return of Madagascar's rights over the Malagasy Islands of Glorieuses, Juan de Nova, Europa and Bassas da India. We should provide firm and active support to the people of Cyprus, a non-aligned country struggling to defend"
"The Indian Ocean demands a greater will from the States responsible for its militarization in order that they reverse their nefarious policy. Meanwhile, we must continue to exert efforts for the early realization of the desire to transform the Indian Ocean into a zone of peace. Contrary to our long-standing endeavours to demilitarise the Indian Ocean, we witness with shock the spread of military forces in the Persian Gulf, which jeopardize its security and pose a serious threat to security and peace in the area and world-wide. Let us increase our demands for the elimination of all military presence from that sensitive area."
"We must recall the situation prevailing in the trusteeship of the Pacific Islands, where the Government of the United States in an arbitrary, unilateral and illegal manner has sought to consolidate and perpetuate its colonial presence."
"We denounce attempts to prevent the independence and sovereignty of so-called Micronesia. We reiterate our categorical support for the legitimate Bolivian demand to recover direct and useful access to the Pacific Ocean, with full sovereignty over that access. We denounce the absence of will on the part of the Chilean regime to continue the negotiations initiated between the two Governments to find a just solution."
"We demand strict compliance with the 1977 Torrijos-Carter treaty on the Panama Canal, and reject manoeuvres by the Government of the United States to violate it and perpetuate its domination and military presence in the isthmus."
"We reiterate our firm solidarity with the sisterly Democratic People's Republic of Korea, arduously struggling for the realization of its people's desire for peaceful reunification and the withdrawal of United States occupation troops from the south of the peninsula."
"We support the position of the People's Democratic Republic of Korea that Korea must not enter the United Nations in the present state of partition, and that entry must wait until it succeeds in reuniting the country. We also support the co-sponsorship of the forthcoming Olympic Games by both States, as an instrument of unity and peace between nations."
"We advocate a speedy solution of the regrettable conflict between Iran and Iraq, which should never have begun, and which continues to cause irreparable losses to both peoples. We support the redoubling of efforts by the United Nations to find a peaceful solution, just and honourable for both sides, thus ending this fratricidal war, which has been going on now for more than seven years. We are firmly convinced that it is more than ever imperative to co-ordinate our action, our unity and our struggle to impose what we desire: dtente, dialogue, peace, and development."
"From the very dawn of the Revolution my Government and people, have suffered the harassment, blockade and aggression of a powerful neighbour. We have learned to live with imperialist aggression and pressure. Although that was not our wish, it is the reality we have had to face. We stand for peace and negotiation in international relations, especially in our continent and with our neighbours. We have never practised an aggressive or hostile policy. Our sole \"sin\" may have been the exercise of the right of our people - enshrined in the United Nations Charter and in any international forum - freely to choose its own system and its own principles of genuine national independence."
"Benito Juarez, an illustrious Latin American leader, said, \"Respect for the tight of others is peace.\" We regret that the Government of our powerful northern neighbour does not apply this thinking in its international relations."
"We have resisted, and shall continue to resist. We have seen different administrations come and go, while our Revolution has developed and become stronger, hoping that the good sense, wisdom and genuine tradition of the American people will prevail, and that the need for coexistence will be recognized."
"We have learned the importance of unity and cohesion in order to resist and overcome. Today, more than ever before, in view of international initiatives seeking paths to negotiation and a new state of relations, we reaffirm our permanent and irrevocable attachment to peace and coexistence."
NA
"On behalf of the people and the Government of the Republic of Cuba, and on my own behalf, I should like at the outset to express our warmest congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the forty-third session of the General Assembly."
"I am all the more pleased by your election,, first, because you represent a sister Latin American nation that has repeatedly demonstrated its devotion to sovereignty and independence, a nation to which we are united by historical bonds of understanding and fraternity and secondly, because of our close, long-standing friendship, which will be further strengthened by this session of our world Organization."
"We are certain that on this occasion you will once again demonstrate your high qualities as a statesman, and for its part the Cuban delegation commits itself to making every effort for the success of this forty-third session and the attainment of world peace and the development of all peoples of the world."
"Last year, in this very forum, we said that, the great prevailing difficulties notwithstanding, we were living in a time of encouraging expectations, because the triumphalism ascendancy of the Reagan Administration had been checked and was on the wane. The activity of major international organizations had been strengthened, and a climate favourable to negotiations prevailed in Europe, Central America, southern Africa, Afghanistan and South-East Asia."
"The facts of history and the efforts of the forces that cherish peace and progress have driven the obscurantist tendencies in international relations into total bankruptcy. Such tendencies seemed to be driving us to the brink of insanity and holocaust at the beginning of this decade. Such ideas, which had argued that a nuclear war was winnable and which advocated the theory of military superiority as a means of ensuring equilibrium and peace, are already losing ground."
"There is a growing rejection of measures - such as the so-called strategic defence initiative - that could lead to an arms race and enhance the possibilities of the total destruction of our planet. A new and effective form of international relations is evolving, one based on dialogue, understanding and the negotiated settlement of conflicts that for years have hung over the world and been bringing our nations ever neater to the brink of a cataclysm of incalculable proportions."
"The adoption of significant disarmament agreements between the two main nuclear Powers is not only a contribution to the attainment of world peace and international security for present and future generations; it enables us to envisage the release, within a reasonable time, of significant resources for the development of all nations and to help overcome the effects of the world economic crisis now threatening."
"The efforts of the Soviet Union and other peace-loving progressive forces are beginning to bear fruit. Thus, we warmly welcome the Moscow meeting between General Secretary Gorbachev and President Reagan; we welcome the agreements reached there and the way in which they are being implemented. We believe this represents a major step towards disarmament, but it must be developed and supplemented. At Reykjavik, Comrade Mikhail Gorbachev proposed working on a draft agreement to reduce strategic weapons by no less than 50 per cent and to eliminate them completely before the end of this century; that proposal is still pending."
"Although it is clear that we are moving towards a process of change, much remains to be done and positions that should be abandoned are still being taken. An example of this was the third special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament, which took place this year. Renewed efforts by non-aligned, socialist and neutral nations to achieve agreements compatible with the new times that seem to be emerging in the field of disarmament tan into the international stance of those who stubbornly refuse to countenance the Assembly taking anything beyond general decisions. Such an irresponsible attitude must be condemned."
"However, if the changes we are trying to bring about in international relations in our quest for full justice and equity do not go beyond disarmament measures, if they are not aimed at promoting the urgent solution of the problems afflicting the economies of the third world and the establishment of a new international economic order, then those changes - despite the glimmers of hope we discern - will be incomplete. Tb understand my country's position, it suffices to remember the words spoken recently at Quito, Ecuador, by President Fidel Castro: \"But the world's problems are not only problems of nuclear weapons and the threats of nuclear war that have unfortunately existed; there still remain other terrible problems for millions of people in the world, such as underdevelopment, poverty  hunger, and lack of education and health\"."
"While the prospect of nuclear war and the resulting destruction and death is dreadful, the lives lived by billions of people on Earth are no less dreadful. The preservation of human life has been our incentive to strive for nuclear disarmament and for general and complete disarmament, and the preservation of human life must also be a driving force in the quest not only for disarmament measures but also for effective solutions to the problems caused by underdevelopment and poverty. For while nuclear war could potentially claim millions of innocent victims, it is no less certain that underdevelopment and poverty claim thousands of innocent victims every day. Suffice it to recall that every three days the number of children who die in the third world is greater than that of all those who died in the genocidal nuclear bombing of Hiroshima at the end of"
"Under the present circumstances, according to data from the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), one in four children is suffering from malnutrition; four in five children in rural areas do not have access to running water or adequate sanitary facilities two in five children between the ages of six and 11 do not go to school; and four in five children have no access to modern medical care. These facts must cry out to our conscience."
"On Monday, 26 September, President Reagan said farewell to us. But before he addressed us we had already said farewell to his policy of confrontation and war; more than saying farewell, we had defeated it. The international community said no to attempts to drive the world towards nuclear holocaust and stated its determination to move towards peace, disarmament, independence and development."
"President Reagan devoted several paragraphs of his statement to Cuba, in which he confirmed his well-known ignorance of the facts of today's world, of their historical background and even of the most basic geographical facts. For that reason we shall not reply to his statement so much as correct it, setting out the facts as they truly are and calling for respect for the truth."
"President Reagan tried to distort the results of the meeting of the Commission on Human Rights held last March at Geneva to fit his own desires, though at that meeting he was defeated thanks to member countries' respect for the purposes of the Commission."
"Cuba is proud of its record in the field of human rights, and after defeating those Yankee manoeuvres we invited a delegation from the Commission on Human Rights to visit out country and observe the human rights situation there."
"The situation today is very different from that of 30 years ago, when we were under United States neo-colonial domination and when the Yankee ambassador served as a pro-Consul who handed down orders to the sitting Presidents. Now, illiteracy has disappeared; life expectancy has risen from 55 to 74 years; infant mortality has declined from 60 to 13 deaths per thousand live births; the epidemic diseases that once claimed the largest number of victims have been eradicated; poliomyelitis, tuberculosis, and other such diseases have been wiped out. Where we had 20,000 university students we now have more than 300,000. Where we had 30 per cent unemployment, all Cubans of working age exercise their right to work."
"There remain counter-revolutionaries imprisoned in Cuba. That is only natural, because the 30 years since the triumph of our revolution have been years of our people's victorious struggle against the constant aggression of successive United States Governments, especially that of the Reagan Administration. Fortunately, those in the employ of Cuba's enemies - agents of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and other services - have failed in their attempts and have been sent to prison. In prison they receive humane treatment and their human rights are respected. There has never been an instance of torture or mistreatment; not a single prisoner has disappeared."
"President Reagan also ignored the facts when he spoke of the situation in southern Africa. He persisted in his failed policy of support for the hateful apartheid regime; he tried to equate the South African invader troops with the Cuban internationalist combatants who went to Angola 13 years ago at the behest of the Angolan people to drive back the racist invader troops. But President Reagan does not even seem to read the newspapers. How else are we to understand his insistence that the agreement on the full withdrawal of foreign troops from Angola should apply first of all to Cuban troops? South African troops have already withdrawn from Angola, after suffering defeat at Cuito Cuanavale."
NA
"The withdrawal of South African troops from Namibia is an obligation deriving from resolution 4 35 (1978) and is being called for by the international community. The Cuban internationalist combatants will withdraw, as has been stated, pursuant to a decision taken by Angola and Cuba."
"Constructive engagement has been useful in prolonging the existence of the hateful apartheid regime, extending by 10 years South Africa's illegal occupation of Namibia. However, it was unable to prevent the failure of the invasion launched by the South African racists against the People's Republic of Angola. In southern Africa in 1988 we have witnessed significant developments which give rise to hope that we shall see achieved some of the objectives pursued by the countries in the region will be achieved - namely, the independence of Namibia on the basis of Security Council resolution 435 (1978), adopted by the Council exactly 10 years ago, and the provision of safeguards for the borders of the People's Republic of Angola."
"Within the framework of the quadripartite talks, which involve the joint delegation of the People's Republic of Angola and the Republic of Cuba, the delegation of the Republic of South Africa and the delegation of the United States, acting as mediator, several meetings have been held in which the problems in the region have been dealt with in extensive discussions and principles have been established for the political settlement of the problems affecting the region."
"In this context, in Brazzaville, following the seventh round of quadripartite talks a communiqu was issued informing the Secretary-General of the United Nations that, beginning on 1 November, effect would be given to Security Council resolution 435 (1978), on the independence of Namibia. It is a fortunate coincidence that this is occurring exactly 10 years after the adoption of resolution 435 (1978). We trust that very shortly Namibia will become independent and take its seat as. the 160th Member State of the United Nations."
"In this context we reaffirm once again the existence o4 indestructible links between Cuba and the People's Republic of Angola, its Government and its people. They have been strengthened by the bloodshed by Cubans and Angolans in the struggle for the freedom and sovereignty of that sister nation. Cuba is not seeking a military victory. Cuba has no intention or desire to humiliate anyone. It is inspired simply by the desire to make its modest contribution to the preservation of Angola's independence, to the progress of the negotiations on Namibia and to the attainment of peace and security in that part of Africa. Consequently, Cuba is prepared to continue these consultations and looks forward to a successful conclusion, although it is aware of the obstacles and difficulties that still have to be overcome and the time and effort that this will entail."
"We reaffirm our unwavering solidarity with the Namibian patriots, led by the South West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO), and the South African patriots, represented by the African National Congress (ANC). We support their resolute struggle against oppression. The security of the other front-line States should similarly be guaranteed, thus checking the aggressive behaviour of the South African regime."
"Particular attention should be paid to the position of Mr. Nelson Mandela, whose release from a prison in South Africa has become a matter of universal concern. Prom this rostrum we congratulate him on his seventieth birthday and reaffirm the steadfast support of the Government and people of Cuba for him and his cause, which, with the whole of mankind, we share."
"The negotiating process which began recently with a view to ending the Iran-Iraq war is also showing encouraging signs, notwithstanding the difficulties involved That war, which should never have broken out, must come to an end, not merely because of the benefits to both peoples that would result from peace and national reconstruction, both peoples, but also because this would be in the interests of non-aligned unity and world peace. Furthermore, stopping the war between the two nations would put an end to the imperialist presence in the Gulf, which must also be uprooted. Those naval forces are not acting as guarantors of peace; rather they are a source of tension and a threat to the independence of the States in the region."
"In Central America there were hopes that peace would be reached under the Esquipulas agreements and the Sapoa talks. Such prospects, however, have run into the stubbornness and arrogance of the imperialists. The renewed efforts of the Government of Nicaragua, the Contadora Group and its Support Group in the search for a just and honourable peace in the region deserve recognition."
"More than a year has passed since these peace initiatives were launched by the five Central American Presidents. They have not yet borne fruit, however, owing to the manoeuvres of those forces interested in impeding their implementation and pursuing a policy of aggression, destabilisation and blockade against the Government of Nicaragua. The situation in Central America calls for prudence, wisdom and firm support from the international community in order to prevent a further escalation of the dirty war directed against Nicaragua, to achieve a negotiated political solution to that regional conflict and to ensure the economic reconstruction of the region. We should also support the peace efforts being made by the Contadora Group and its Support Group. We must reject every attempt to exclude them from the negotiating process. Furthermore, a process of"
"Cuba reaffirms its full solidarity with the Government and people of Nicaragua and reaffirms Nicaragua  sovereign right to decide its own destiny free from any form of interference."
"We welcome with healthy Latin American and Caribbean pride the honourable example set by the Panamanian people, which has rejected and defeated all the imperialist acts of aggression, blockades and threats directed against it, thereby demonstrating the enormous strength of a people united in defence of its sovereignty and independence."
"We cannot fail to welcome also the significant agreements reached in Geneva with regard to Afghanistan, which are a source of satisfaction to us. The new situation which that Asian nation currently faces calls for renewed and continuing endeavours by all the parties and by the international community as a whole to bring about the speedy implementation of agreements, to ensure respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan and to enable all obstacles to the attainment of peace in that region to be overcome. Cuba fully supports the Republic of Afghanistan in the difficult process of national reconciliation."
"We welcome the negotiating efforts being made by the States of Indo-China in order to achieve the long-desired peace in South-East Asia, the constructive and flexible dialogue among the countries of the region and the initiative taken by the Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement in his efforts to contribute to a negotiated solution. In this context, we reiterate our full support for the policy of national reconciliation formulated by the People's Republic of Kampuchea. These developments represent a source of hope in a climate fraught with dramatic potential."
"The ministerial Conference of non-aligned countries met in Nicosia, the beautiful, warm capital of Cyprus, just a few days ago. The successful discussions at that Conference, the fraternal, constructive atmosphere during the talks and the presence of almost all member States of the Movement, with delegations mostly led by their Foreign Ministers, was unequivocal proof of the progress made by our Movement and evidence of its growing unity and capacity for action."
"In Cyprus we reiterated our call for struggle for peace and development. We welcomed the progress made in the negotiations on disarmament and at the same time warned that acts of aggression were still persisted and that solidarity and encouragement should be given to the peoples of the world in their struggles."
"We agreed to meet next year in Belgrade - where the first non-aligned summit was held in 1961 - for the ninth summit conference of Heads of State or Government in order to strengthen further the decisive role we should play in the defence of peace and the furtherance of development."
"Last year we reaffirmed that the United Nations should contribute with all its influence to the attainment of peace and the political resolution of conflicts and disputes among nations. Today we are witnessing a resurgence of the United Nations contribution, and very particularly that of its Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Prez de Cuellar. He has been responsible for much in the way of resolving many of these regional conflicts. We have noted with satisfaction that the achievements of the United Nations this year have helped put an end to the theories proclaiming the death of multilateralism and the ineffectiveness of the United Nations. The United Nations has done this by meeting its obligations under the Charter."
"The situation in Latin America and the Caribbean is both promising and potentially dangerous. It is promising because of the sustained progress made in the political and social realms in our continent, because of the growing awareness of shared problems and because of the growing unity in a spirit of pluralism that has not been impeded by the natural differences of ideology, wealth or territorial extension among the countries in our region. The future of this continent will be bright if Latin America and the Caribbean succeed in exercising unity and cohesion, if we are able to take advantage of the legacy left us by our predecessors, that is. Bolivar, San Martin, 0'Higgins, Sucre, Juarez and Marti; if we succeed in identifying our common problems and in finding shared solutions; in short, if we are able to undertake a real endeavour at integration,"
"The informal dialogue of foreign ministers of Latin American and Caribbean countries held recently in Caracas represented encouraging evidence of a growing and necessary unity and of the urgent need for integration and co-operation. It showed that our united voice is strong and to be heard wherever integrationist tendencies are on the rise."
"Cuba will do everything in its power to contribute to this process of Latin American and Caribbean unity, co-operation and integration."
"Democracy has progressed in Latin America and the Caribbean. Dictatorial regimes are more isolated than ever, rejected by both their own peoples and the Latin American and Caribbean community. We are confident that 7e shall be able to manage our future collectively for the benefit of our peoples."
"However, we also said that Latin America is faced with a potentially dangerous situation, as hazardous as that facing the other countries of the third world. The international economic crisis has produced intolerable repercussions. It has stirred up an unbridled and spiralling decline in the living standards of our peoples with the progressive erosion of our economies, the worsening of injustice and unequal relations with the industrialized countries of the West. Furthermore, in recent years the arms race and its almost geometric growth have made the prospects of development even more uncertain and an ever greater amount of resources has been used that could otherwise have been employed to alleviate the effects of the crisis."
"The difficult path we have had to trace in the 14 years since the adoption of the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order by the General Assembly at its sixth special session has become increasingly uncertain. This has shown the serious nature of the problems we face and the need for urgent solutions."
"The phenomena which have traditionally affected international economic relations, in particular those involving the developed capitalist countries, on the one hand, and the third world, on the other, continue to worsen and to make the plight of billions of human beings unprecedentedly hopeless. Protectionism, the difficulties encountered by third world countries in the export of commodities and in getting access to markets, together with the unequal terms of trade, the dumping and the external debt constitute scourges which have plunged a large number of countries into an economic crisis, a \"crisis for existence\", the solution of which requires a major restructuring of the world economy and of its operating procedures."
"This is one of the great paradoxes of our time. While we are witnessing encouraging signs of progress in international political relations, progress in terms of disarmament and a tendency to resolve many local conflicts, at the same time the economic plight of the underdeveloped countries is becoming increasingly worse. While the major capitalist countries Powers agree to hold negotiations on matters pertaining to war and peace, they still refuse to hold comprehensive negotiations to resolve the roost pressing economic problems of the contemporary world."
"Do they not realize that, no matter how much they pursue security, security will be incomplete as long as an economic gap continues to exist between one group of nations and another, and indeed continues to widen?"
"A new international economic order continues to be our goal. In recent years we have repeatedly heard views questioning its validity in present circumstances. We do not agree with such views. How could one seriously and responsibly argue that an instrument that has never been implemented has ceased to be valid? Is it that the conditions that have brought it about have already disappeared?"
"Of all the phenomena to which we have referred, the spiralling external debt of our countries has had the most serious impact and may potentially be the most dangerous for the political, economic and social stability of vast sectors of the world."
"We have recognized over and over again that the external debt of third world countries is a political issue and should be approached as such and that all the parties involved - debtors, creditors, banks and financial institutions - should pool their efforts."
"We need to find a speedy solution to this problem. We have recognized a number of factors which link such a solution to the search for answers to other problems affecting third world economies. However, a debt that exceeds 31 trillion is not something to be simply recognized or dealt with in terms of theoretical assumptions. Our countries have been concerned for far too long with poverty, hunger, illiteracy, inadequate health services and the desire for equality and justice."
"The recent fourteenth Latin American Council of the Latin American Economic System decided to convene a regional conference on external debt. Everyone agrees on the fact that it is unpayable and uncollectable. We need to develop a comprehensive strategy for tackling the debt problem; we need to take a new approach. Several years ago President Fidel Castro proposed a formula with which this General Assembly is very familiar. We strongly believe in the accuracy and force of his argument and, indeed, it has been borne out by events of recent years."
"We are entering a new decade. We should work for a new millennium of peace and coexistence in the 1990s, with a new and positive form of international relations as opposed to the attitudes and policies that prevailed in the 1980s. Aggression must give way to good-neighbourliness among nations. The use of force should be replaced by consultations and dialogue. Policies of coercion should yield to negotiations for the protection of mutual interests. Unequal terms of trade should give way to a just and equitable international commerce. The obsolete mechanism based on Bretton Woods should yield to a new international monetary system which would eliminate overt or covert exploitation."
"The process which is now beginning for the United Nations Fourth Development Decade could offer a suitable framework for these objectives. Those who illegally possess the world's wealth currently \"have the floor\". They are the ones that have to demonstrate wisdom and genuine concern for the fate of the world; otherwise, it will fall into a state of collapse fraught with unforeseeable consequences."
"In this connection, we welcome the endeavours of the South Commission and, particularly, the results of its meeting in Mexico. We believe that such institutions may be very useful in raising world consciousness about the need for development and providing new ideas for solving the most pressing problems of the third world. We are particularly pleased to see that this Commission is presided over by Mr. Julius Nyerere, an outstanding contemporary political figure and one of the eminent leaders of African independence."
"We note with satisfaction that the Conference on the Indian Ocean will be convened in 1995. We should build our collective determination so that by the time the Conference starts that region will have been freed from military pressures and will have become a zone of peace. We believe that the new course we are beginning to see developing in international relations may represent a decisive contribution to the attainment of a climate conducive to the demilitarization of the region."
"We reaffirm our support for the sister republics of Korea and express our solidarity with their aspirations for reunification and for the total withdrawal of United States occupation forces from the southern peninsula. We trust that we shall shortly have the delegation of a united Korea in the United Nations."
"We also express our support for the legitimate desires of Cyprus, a non-aligned country to which we are linked by ties of close friendship. We call for preservation of its independence, sovereignty, national unity, territorial integrity and non-aligned status. We also welcome the talks between representatives of the Greek Cypriot and the Turkish Cypriot communities. We support the convening of an international conference on Cyprus under the auspices of the United Nations."
"In the present international circumstances, we should increase our efforts to put an end to the wandering life of the Palestinian people, who are subjected to unparalleled outrages on their native land. The response of the Palestinian people to Zionist abuse has been a national popular uprising which since its beginning last December has marked the start of a new phase in the long struggle waged by the Palestinian people against foreign colonization and domination."
"We reaffirm our support for the holding of an international peace conference on the Middle East with equal participation by all parties to the conflict, including the Palestine Liberation Organization, the sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people. We reaffirm our conviction that there can be no solution to the conflict in the Middle East without a solution to the Palestinian question and without recognition of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people, including the establishment of their own State."
"We support the just cause of the people of Lebanon in their just struggle for national unity, respect for their territorial integrity and for preservation of their non-aligned status. We support the call for the withdrawal of Moroccan troops and administration from the territory of Western Sahara and for the establishment of an independent and sovereign Sahraoui state."
"We continue to support Bolivia's just claim for direct and practical access to the sea, a right supported by the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean. We support Argentina's claim of sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands. We reiterate our solidarity with Madagascar and its claims over the Malagasy islands of Glorieuses, Juan de Nova, Europa and Bassas da India. We also support the aspirations of Comoros to regain sovereignty over Mayotte."
"Other vestiges of colonialism also remain in Guam, Bermuda, the Cayman Islands, East Timor, Gibraltar, New Caledonia, Anguilla, Pitcairn, Montserrat, the British Virgin Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, the Turks and Caicos Islands and elsewhere. We cannot disregard the attempts to prevent the independence and sovereignty of so-called Micronesia."
"Cuba is still suffering from illegal occupation of its territory by the United States naval base in Guantanamo, which remains there against the wishes of our people and Government, in violation of the most basic norms of international law. However, the day will come when we shall exercise sovereignty throughout our territory. Since the end of the last century, Puerto Rico has remained under the yoke of the most powerful colonial system of our century. It is the steadfast duty of the Cuban revolution, which liberated its own people from shackles, to contribute to the independence of Puerto Rico, as Jose Marti stated when he founded the Cuban Revolutionary Party almost 100 years ago, and prevent Puerto Rican soil from being used for the launching of continued aggression against other States of the region."
"The General Assembly is duty-bound to continue to endeavour to promote the exercise of the inalienable right of peoples to self-determination; to independence; to sovereignty over their natural resources; to free economic and social development to defence of their traditions, languages and cultural identities; and to demand the removal of military bases from their sea and their soil."
"The world is now facing the dilemma of peace or war. We have no tight to disregard the appeals of our peoples. We must be prepared to live in peace. We must create the machinery that will enhance and strengthen confidence and security among nations, as well as peaceful coexistence and productivity."
"We must lay the foundations for the relationships of the future so that the generations of the next millennium will feel proud of the heritage left to them by their predecessors. That is our goal."
"May I first, on behalf of the people and Government of the Republic of Cuba and on my own behalf, express our warmest congratulations to Major General Joseph N. Garba, outstanding son of the brotherly people of Nigeria, on his election to preside over the forty-fourth session of the General Assembly. At the outset, too, we wish to express our appreciation of Mr. Dante Caputo, a remarkable Latin American political figure and statesman, who performed brilliantly as President of the General Assembly at its forty-third session. During that session we welcomed with satisfaction and hope the disarmament agreements between the Soviet Union and the United States, which undoubtedly opened the way for a relaxation of tension, a reversal of the arms race and the removal of the threat of war. We cannot overlook the influence of the Soviet union's policy of peace on that."
"Hope of peace is still uncertain, for those are just initial steps, yet to be consolidated. The nuclear arsenal remains virtually intact. The United States and some of its allies plan to modernize theirs, and have declared that the strategy of North Atlantic Treaty Organization should be maintained. The United States military budget is not being reduced. Therefore, we should not deceive ourselves or harbour illusions that tensions have disappeared from the international arena. A difficult road lies ahead. Yet, there are some grounds for hope, unless the Government of the United States itself to be lured by the dangerous and cherished idea that socialism can be brought down from within, and adopts a policy of arrogance and domination."
"Cuba strongly supports a policy of peace, and will do everything it can contribute to making this process, which is all-important for mankind, irreversible. However. the fundamental idea prevailing in the United States position is that peace among the big Powers, detente between the blocs, should allow the United States to pursue its policy of pressure and threat against revolutionary, Progressive and independent countries of the third world."
"Therefore peace should not be seen exclusively in the context of the level of confrontation between the big Powers. The peace that we non-aligned developing countries - which do not possess nuclear weapons but which have the great strength of our moral weapons - seek, the global. honourable, just and lasting peace we are a11 looking forward to, requires that underdeveloped nations also benefit from the climate of detente. As the first Vice-President of the Council of state and of the Council of Ministers of  Ministers, General of the Army Raul Castro stated at the  Ninth Summit Conference of Non-Aligned Countries: \"The security and peace of the rich are not the security and peace for which the poor nations struggle. We want peace with sovereignty, independence, dignity, Justice and development. We want a truly universal Peace without interference or aggression.\""
"We cannot conceive, much less accept, that while talks and negotiations agreements that contribute to disarmament, international peace and security, the United states continues at the same time to apply its hostile policies and actions against independent nations in different parts of the world. The situation prevailing in Panama today is the clearest example of the arrogance with which the empire views peace with small states  - undoubtedly a peace  with sharp claws.  Cuba has been instantly reaffirming, the continued provocations and campaigns orchestrated, day and night against Panama, more than against an individual or an event, are designed to create an atmosphere conducive to a United States breach of the Torrijos-Carter Treaty under which Panama will gain full sovereignty over the Canal and which requires the dismantling of United States military bases in the Canal Zone by the end of this century."
"The Ninth Summit Conference of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries expressed its concern over the increase of United States troops in Panama and at continued military manoeuvres on Panamanian territory, which create a situation of tension that could lead to serious conflict. The Heads of State or Government reaffirmed in Belgrade their solidarity with the people of Panama in their struggle to consolidate the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of their country. They demanded full observance of the letter and spirit of the Panama Canal Treaties of 1977 and rejected any action that might constitute a violation or disregard the validity of the treaties and called upon the United States to refrain from adopting any measure or action that could prevent their full implementation. They deplored the coercive economic measures imposed against the Republic of Panama and demanded their immediate termination."
"The international community's solidarity with the heroic people of Panama is necessary to prevent the threat that now looms over that country from becoming a reality. There is another situation of tension in our region that has not yet been resolved. The Central American conflicts, which has lasted for years, has seen an important development in the Tela Agreements, crowning efforts that reflect the political will of Latin American peoples and Governments. We hope that such serious negotiating efforts will counter the United States Government's policy of interference which - after years of sustained heavy financial backing of the Somoza bands operating against Nicaragua whose disbanding has now been legally decided - is now promoting and appropriating funds for the Nicaraguan opposition with a view to sabotaging the country's legitimate win and producing an electoral victory favourable to its own interests."
"We welcome the calm and firm attitude of the Sandinista Government in the search for a just and honourable solution to a conflict that has taken the lives of many of Nicaragua's best youth, fallen in defence of their national sovereignty and independence. The search for a politically negotiated solution in El Salvador is also part of the negotiating process in Central America. Acceptance of the Tela Agreements by both parties to the conflict allows us to harbour hopes for the honourable solution sought by a people which have suffered the horrors of a terrible repression that has taken thousands of lives and inspired Salvadorean patriots to Put up a formidable fight, we support the just stand of the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLM) and the Democratic Revolutionary Front (FDR), which have once again shown their readiness to hold negotiations and engage in constructive dialogue."
"We express our solidarity with the just demand of the people and Government of Argentina to recover their sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands. we also support Bolivia's call for a direct and useful outlet to the sea."
"The Iran-Iraq conflict, which has for years kept these two non-aligned countries immersed in a bloody war that should never have begun, is now moving towards negotiation. Hostilities have ceased, but certain elements contained in security Council resolution 596 (1987) have yet to be Implemented before the achievement of a just and stable peace is possible. The imperialist presence in the Gulf, .here naval forces pose a threat to the security and independence of States in the region, does not contribute to attaining the much needed permanent peace. In South West Asia the signing of the Geneva Agreements has not prevented one of the parties, with the support and assistance of the United States Government, from continuing its attempts to impose a military solution contrary to the letter and spirit of the Geneva Agreements. Cuba supports the national reconciliation policy being pursued by the Government of the Republic of Afghanistan in a flexible and persistent fashion. The completion of Vietnamese troop withdrawals from Cambodia constitutes an important contribution to the political solution of the Cambodian conflict."
"The situation in the Middle East is worsening and it has not yet been possible to get all the parties involved to agree to convening and holding an international Peace conference, which is in our view a viable way to resolve the conflict, with the participation of all parties concerned on an equal footing, including the Palestine Liberation Organization (H.0). the sole, legitimate representative of the Palestinian people. Our Government expresses its unrestricted support for their right to independence and a national State. The intifidah. the heroic uprising of the Palestinian people against the ruthlessness of Zionism, deserves the respect and recognition of the entire international community. Cuba reiterates its condemnation of the actions of Israel and the united States, its strategic ally, and expresses the conviction that the solution to the conflict in the Middle East must necessarily entail a solution to the question of Palestine."
"We support the just cause of the Lebanese people in their struggle for national unity and territory integrity. We reiterate our support for the legitimate rights of the Cypriot people to preserve their national unity, independence, sovereignty and non-aligned character. We consider the convening of an international conference on Cyprus under the auspices of the United Nations to be a positive initiative."
"we wish to express our support for the just policy of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea aimed at' the peaceful reunification of their country and the total withdrawal of United States occupation troops from the south of the peninsula. We are confident that we will soon be able to welcome a delegation from a unified Korea to the United Nations."
"We support the establishment of an independent and sovereign Sahraoui State and the withdrawal of the Moroccan administration and troops from the territory of Western Sahara."
"We reiterate our support for Madagascar's recovery of its rights over the Malvinas Islands - Glorieuses, Juan de Neva, Europa and Bassas da India - as well as for the aspirations of the Comoros Islands to recover their sovereignty over Mayotte. Progress in the situation in southern Africa has been significant since December last, when the United Nations became the stage for the signing of the Tripartite Agreements that preceded the beginning of the implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978). There is no doubt that the long and complex negotiating process which resulted in the signing of the Tripartite Accords is proof that serious negotiations can be held while the legitimate interests of all parties are respected. As our President, Comrade Fidel Castro, has pointed out, Cuba negotiated seriously and is seriously fulfilling its commitments. By 22 September 1989, a total of 20,666 combatants had returned victorious to our homeland, in compliance with the agreed timetable, which was duly monitored by the united Nations verification team."
"In conformity with the decision of the Ninth Summit Conference of Non-Aligned Countries held recently in Belgrade, the united Nations has the lofty and delicate responsibility of monitoring the implementation of the provisions of resolution 435 (1978) and of ensuring that the Namibian people and the South West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO), its legitimate representative, can express themselves, without obstacles of any type, in the free and sovereign elections scheduled for next November. Cuba joins the non-aligned countries and all"
"honourable peoples the world over in demanding an immediate end to all interference in Namibia by forces of the colonial Power."
"At their Ninth Summit Conference the non-aligned countries raised their voice to denounce the intransigence of the apartheid racist regime, as manifest in its continued internal repression. The Conference pointed out that apartheid cannot be reformed, that it must be eliminated through the complete eradication of its criminal system. The Conference also called on the United Nations to adopt effective measures in accordance with Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. Cuba fully endorses these Just demands of the Non-Aliped Movement."
"All necessary measures must be taken to avoid fraud in the forthcoming elections. Threats and acts of aggression against the Namibian people must come to end. The Koevoet racist military forces, which are part of the Namibian police, must be disbanded immediately, voters should cast their votes in the places .here they are registered. Secret ballots must be respected. Illiterate voters should  be able to have the assistance of persons of their choice,  and ballots should be counted in the districts, and not brought to the capital."
"The Assembly should have full powers and not be subordinated to the administrator. as the. representative of the South African racist regime wishes, when deciding on the state to be taken towards independence."
"We note with satisfaction that the climate of aggression and threats from outside against Ethiopia is beginning to be disposed. As a result, the circumstances which, more than 10 years ago - when a request was made by the Ethiopian Government - made the presence of Cuban internationalist contents necessary to assist Ethiopia's forces in repelling outside aggression, have come to an end. Thus the Cuban combatants who comprised small contingent in Ethiopia returned home this September. In this manner Cuba has once again proven its ability to express its solidarity with other peoples and at the. same time contribute to international peace."
"With the independence of Namibia and its entry into the international arena and the community of nations, the struggle against colonialism will have achieved a great victory. However, we should not feel satisfied, more than 20 territories, with a potation of several million, still live under colonial domination. The people of Puerto Rico remain under a foreign boot, after almost 100 years of United States military occupation. It is well known that the so-called Plebiscite with which the United States Administration intends to determine the Territory's future is an attempt to incorporate Puerto Rico, as a new state, in the Union."
"Because of this, the United Nations Special Committee on Decolonization this year not only reaffirmed the right of the Boricuan people to self-determination and independence, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), but also expressed its hope, and that of the \"international community, that, in any consultation, the people of Puerto Rico would be able to exercise, without any hindrance, its right to self-determination and independence, with expressed recognition of their sovereignty and full political equality, in line with the provisions of resolution 1514 (XV). Cuba, together with the other non-aligned countries, considers that efforts must be made to put an end to all existing colonial situations by the turn of the century."
"The problems deriving from the sustained growth of the drug consumer market - particularly in the United States - and the resulting incentive to production and trafficking have become increasingly serious. We must face this situation resolutely. The struggle against drug production and trafficking must go side by side with the struggle against consumption, against the market which, in the United States alone, produces annual profits exceeding $150 billion. Cuba is, as always, prepared to play its corresponding role in that battle."
"One issue that deserves our immediate attention is the threat to global security resulting from the international economic situation. We reiterate that, while the steps being taken in the field of disarmament and towards the creation of a climate of detente in the solution of some conflicts, as well as in the relations between the great Powers, are encouraging, such progress has not led to solutions to the problems of underdevelopment or the economic crisis afflicting the third world. He will not advance towards a real system of security so long as the already huge gap between the developed countries and the underdeveloped part of the world - which is suffering from an increasingly critical situation of backwardness, poverty and underdevelopment - continues to grow. These issues must be reconsidered, and a lasting solution found, if we wish to live in a world of true peace and social stability."
"The encouraging picture painted by the economic performance of the industrialised nations during 1988 is very different indeed from the situation of crisis prevailing in the economies of the developing countries. United Nations studies themselves indicate that the average per capita income of industrialized countries is 50 times higher than that of the least developed countries, and that the mere annual growth of the wealthiest countries amounts almost to the total annual per capita income of the poorest nations, which is approximately 3300."
"What kind of peace can we talk about in such a situation of seemingly unsolvable imbalances, where the poor increase the opulence of the wealthy? If peace is not linked to development, then poverty, inequality and violence will not disappear."
"The phenomena which continue to characterize international economic relations, perpetuating this unjust situation, which are particularly evident in third-world nations with respect to unpayable external debt, are well known: protectionism? difficult access to markets for the main products of the developing countries; deterioration in the terms of trade? dumping; reduced financial flews? high interest rates? coercive economic measures? international monetary and financial instability? and external debt. All of this has resulted, in the recent past, in a net transfer of resources from the developing countries to the industrialized nations, causing not only continued plundering that prevents growth and development but also a new form of economic colonialism. Suffice it to mention, as an example, that the transfer of resources from Latin American countries to their creditors, in recent years alone, amounts to $179 billion. This represents 4 par cent of their annual gross domestic product - a figure that exceeds, by far, Germany's forced external net transfer of resources after its defeat in the First World War."
"Many have focused their attention on the specific problem of external debt. But consistent steps towards true solutions have not yet been taken. Proposed solutions, coming mostly from creditors and based on case-by-case rescheduling, have only worsened the economic situation of debtor countries, although they have succeeded in their main objective of keeping creditor banks from enduring imminent heavy losses. Debtor countries, however, are growing nearer to insolvency, and their stagnation is prolonged with economic and social costs that have led to serious political disturbances and claimed hundreds and hundreds of human lives."
"Proposals made within and outside the United Nations, based on a reduction of the amount of the debt, involve recognition that the debt is unpayable. The experience of all these years only confirms that the real solution to the debt problem involves the total elimination of the debt and the establishment of a new international economic order which would do away with the causes of today's grim Picture. Existing proposals would be a palliative only if reductions reached substantial levels, which Latin American Economic System experts have fixed at no less than 50 per cent, if ceilings are set for interest rates, and if a general"
"framework for implementation were established including all debtors without exception."
"As long as we attempt to resolve the problem on a case-by-case basis we shall continue to fail. We would support United Nations efforts to bring about a real political dialogue between debtor and creditor countries."
"The special session of the General Assembly to be held in the spring of 1990 and its preparatory process will give us an opportunity to reassess the challenges posed by this ongoing crisis of development in the face of the world's new economic and social realities. We hope the special session will promote frank and constructive dialogue with the understanding that unless swift and realistic solutions are promoted the problems new affecting vast regions of the world will in the future threaten the countries of the North with social and political instability."
"Of course, the international development strategy for the 1990s will have to be realistic and provide for concrete policy measures with defined goals and objectives. But in particular it will require the readiness of industrialized countries to contribute to efforts by developing countries."
"Protection of the environment is a concept that must be clearly defined because of its close relation to problems of development, the protection of natural resources, international economic relations, extreme poverty and the sovereignty of States, it is a matter of concern to all nations, a matter with respect to which imperialist actions bear a great responsibility, owing to the transfer to our countries of polluting industries by capitalist developed countries irrespective of the diversity of forms the problem takes in different areas. The problem must therefore be examined and measures chosen with the participation of all States, not a restricted or select group. I particular, its close links to problems of development must be very clear, since underdevelopment is the main threat to the third world. Underdevelopment stems from our colonial past, which also involved, among other acts of aggression, the devastation of our forests and caused irreparable damage to our environment. Increasingly, the United Nations is becoming the optimal forum for contributing to the solution of the numerous problems we are facing."
"The growing role of the third world in the United Nations may be seen in the context of that positive performance. There is no doubt that the United Nations represents the development of our planet since the end of the Second World War - from the establishment of the Organization to the present day. Today's United Nations is not and cannot be the United Nations of 1945. We must therefore embark on a sustained process of democratising its machinery in keeping with the interests of all member States. Cuba has already stated its position on this subject, which is of interest to the entire international community."
"The Bush Administration has clearly begin to take steps with respect to Cuba that would make it the eighth United States Administration not wishing to establish a climate of peace and good-neighbourliness and persisting in hostile and aggressive action against us."
"Cuba knows it is not alone in the struggle to defend its rights, its independence and its sovereignty. We appreciate the numerous expressions of solidarity we have received. We wish in particular to refer to the decision adopted by Heads of State or Government of non-aligned countries at the recent ninth summit conference held in Belgrade. They condemned the continued threats of aggression against Cuba, the violation of its air-space and territorial waters and the blockade imposed against Cuba in the areas of finance, credit and trade, along with radio broadcasts from the United States and the decision to begin television broadcasts of a destabilizing nature, in violation of international law and, particularly, the 1982 Nairobi Convention."
"We have warned the United States of the consequences of beginning such broadcasts, it will bear full responsibility. Cuba will not tolerate such session in silence. We shall respond - and I wish expressly to reaffirm that from this rostrum. Heads of state or Government of the Bon-Aligned Movement also reiterated their support and solidarity with respect to Cuba's Just demand for the return of the territory illegally occupied by the United states at its Guantanamo naval base. Cuba will never forget those decisions, which should be taken into account by the united states Administration as it formulates its regional policies."
"The anti-Cuban attitude of United States arch-reactionary circles on the Potomac increases the political blindness of the top leadership of that country in its vain attempt to make the Cuban revolution yield, this has reached the point -here strategic aircraft in combat formation have been sent to our country simulating a massive air strike, as took place on 20 May last, while United states submarines approached our shores with unknown objectives, which, could have caused serious and delicate incidents. Like all other peace-loving nations that are firmly confuted to achieving the social and economic development demanded by their peoples, Cuba shares the great wish to devote all its resources to the noble goal of develop."
"Cuba - the Cuban revolution - has been a reality for more than three decades, and it constantly renews its energies and strengths. Long ago. our people decided to sever the chains of bondage to metropolis countries and neo-colonialism, and freely chose the economic, political and social system It wanted. Therefore, our readiness to maintain peaceful relations of co-operation and friendship with any country - and the United States ought to remember this - is based primarily on this principle; Cuba must be treated for what it is, an independent state and a sovereign socialist nation."
"Our delegation is very pleased to see Mr. Guido de Marco presiding over the work of this session of the General Assembly, at a time of particular importance for the destiny of humankind. The contribution of Mr. de Marco's country within the Non-Aligned Movement and his proven capabilities and experience signal success in the work we have taken on. I wish to congratulate him most warmly on behalf of the people and Government of Cuba, and also on my own behalf."
"This is certainly a suitable opportunity for me to express our grateful appreciation for the work carried out by Major-General Joseph Garba as President during the last session of the General Assembly."
"To the new Member States, Namibia and Liechtenstein, I extend our best wishes on their joining this great family of nations and, by so doing, making that family more universal."
"The world has changed. Today the international situation is qualitatively different from what it was a year ago, when we met in this same Hall. The risk of a nuclear confrontation has diminished, along with the holocaust such a confrontation might entail. That is something to be welcomed. Progress is being made in the negotiations towards nuclear disarmament, negotiations which ought to be conducted with all States participating within the United Nations framework."
"The tensions stemming from the so-called East-West confrontation have practically disappeared, but the peace which now prevails is not the peace for which we have always fought - real peace for all States, weak and strong, large and small, in whatever continent. We say \"yes\" to peace, but we want it to be a worthy peace and a peace for all. We say \"yes\" to dtente and co-operation, but we want it for everybody, not only between East and West but between North and South as well. We say \"yes\" to multilateralism and the United Nations, but we demand it for everybody, large and small, nuclear and non-nuclear Powers, developed and underdeveloped, rich and poor."
"We must not continue advocating dtente, peace and development by pole or by latitude: these are problems of all humankind and hence they cannot be projected onto a map and then split up. For there to be peace, mere disarmament is not enough. Without development, there can be no peace either."
"The world has changed, and instead of East-West and North-South contradictions we now have a world with increasing problems in the South, a world where there are no signs that the economically developed States are willing to do their duty and contribute towards the tenacious development effort of those peoples that have suffered centuries of colonial and neo-colonial exploitation."
"In the Middle East, where there is continuing delay in the convening of an international peace conference in which all parties, including the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) as the legitimate representative of the Palestinian people, would take part on an equal footing, we now see that after the end of the Iran-Iraq war and the beginning of a solution to the consequences of that conflict, a new situation has arisen: the occupation and annexation of the State of Kuwait by Iraq."
"Cuba, in keeping with its principled policy, expressed itself in the Security Council in favour of the adoption of resolution 660 (1990) against the invasion, and similarly came out, in so many words, against the annexation of Kuwait. For Cuba, strict observance of the norms of international law is the greatest assurance that can be given to all nations that international peace and security will really be maintained in the climate proclaimed by the premises and principles of the Charter."
"We have therefore constantly acted to promote a negotiated solution and avoid the outbreak of a war of incalculable scale whose immediate effects would be felt by all peoples in the region, and which would also have serious economic effects for all developing countries in general, given the importance of oil in the world economy. President Fidel Castro has contacted the Heads of State of the Arab countries, the President of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and other Heads of Government, and has given instructions for various steps to be taken within the Security Council itself."
"It is not possible, however, to disregard the fact that the United States is making use of this crisis to achieve, in its supposed role as planetary policeman, its old ambition to establish itself militarily in the Gulf area and to be able to do whatever it likes with the oil wealth of the region, which is of strategic economic importance for the whole world. The concentration of United States naval forces and those of Western countries in that region is enormous. They seek to fulfil a military role that no one has assigned them with regard to an effective blockade of Iraq. As a result, there is the more disturbing possibility that hostilities might break out by accident or by premeditated provocation, given not only the existence of nuclear-powered vessels, but also the reported presence of nuclear weapons in some of those vessels, a fact that certainly serves to exacerbate the crisis."
"The announcement by highly placed officials of the United States administration that such a military presence could be kept on for some time and that the sole effective means to get the Iraqi troops to leave Kuwait is to use military force, demands a reaction on the part of the international community, which cannot remain silent and must reject such notions. Cuba abstained in the vote on Security Council resolution 665 (1990) because we felt that its provisions would be tantamount to spreading a cloak of legality over the acts of blatant piracy that the United States navy had been carrying out in the Gulf, and over the adoption of measures not provided for in Article 41 of the Charter, which was the basis for the embargo against Iraq. Therefore, we do not accept the self-proclaimed role of policeman that the United States has assumed, nor the pressures it has been applying to prevent the sending of food"
"We are surprised that the United States, which spent a number of years flattening Viet Ham, bullied tiny Grenada, and most recently sent its elite troops to invade Panama - among other similar actions in its long history of interventionism - should now pose as a champion of international peace and security. But we are even more surprised that those who have repeatedly opposed the application of sanctions by the Security Council against Israel for its repeated acts of aggression and its occupation of Arab and Palestinian territories, should now come forward as the principal advocates of those measures. Cuba rejects the haste that has been so evident in the preparation and adoption of new resolutions, which only add to the risk of a conflagration and are clearly incompatible with the supposed desire to exhaust political and diplomatic means."
"No State is entitled to set itself up as an arbiter with the right to decide when such efforts have been exhausted. The international community must not simply acquiesce in the sense of inevitability that tends to pervade the Council's resolutions. For Cuba, there can be an reasonable alternative to a negotiated political solution, which roust necessarily include the restoration of the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Kuwait and the complete withdrawal of foreign forces deployed in the region. Resort to force, with all its devastating consequences for the peoples and wealth of the region, would set in notion an economic catastrophe for the countries of the third world. Even without the outbreak of war, the price of a barrel of oil has surpassed $40. What would the consequences be for the economies of the more than 100 States of the third world if actual military hostilities were to"
"At the same time, we wish to reiterate that basic foodstuffs and medical assistance are fundamental human rights that must be guaranteed in all circumstances for the civilian population of Iraq and Kuwait, as well as for nationals of third States in those territories. Hot even evacuation would provide a quick solution for all the citizens of third countries, because more than 500,000 Palestinian citizens will be unable to return to their homeland, which continues to be occupied by Israel."
"In numerous regions of the world, peoples continue to clamour for the establishment of peace, although the negotiating process has not yet met their legitimate aspirations."
"We now have a new, unified Yemen which Cuba salutes. Through the maturity and intelligence of its peoples and Governments, Yemen has overcome the division that survived the colonial inheritance that once divided them. The now Namibia, which after a long-drawn-out but no less heroic struggle, won its independence - to which we Cubans are honoured to have contributed - can now take its rightful place among us. That is another manifestation of today's new atmosphere. There have been developments in the Cambodian conflict, and the parties appear to be moving towards an agreement. But the process is still in its early stages and has not yet crystallised."
"The Government of Afghanistan is persistently and flexibly pursuing its policy of national reconciliation, despite the difficulties that one party to the conflict, with United States support, has been placing in its path, despite the Geneva Agreements. Cuba supports the just position of the Government of Afghanistan."
"The question of Cyprus remains deadlocked while the country remains under military occupation. Cuba reiterates its support for the legitimate rights of the Cypriot people; for dialogue between the two communities that compose it; for the establishment of a bi-communal federal republic preserving the unity, sovereignty, independence end non-aligned status of Cyprus; and for the urgent convening of an international conference on the question of Cyprus under the auspices of the United Nations in order to resolve the matter."
"We support the establishment of an independent and sovereign Sahraoui State, as well as the withdrawal of the Moroccan administration and troops from the territory of the Western Sahara."
"We reiterate our support for the people of Lebanon in its just struggle for national unity and territorial integrity."
"We wish the People's Republic of China success in the process of integrating into its national sovereignty those parts of its territory and peoples that were wrested from it by colonial domination or imperialist intervention."
"Korea continues to be divided, although significant steps have begun to be taken that could lead to the long-desired reunification. In that respect, we reiterate our solidarity with the just policy pursued by the People's Democratic Republic of Korea."
"In Angola, where Cuba has been strictly and impeccably implementing the withdrawal of its military contingent as a result of the agreements arrived at, peace has not proved possible as a result of the actions of UHITA, which has been supported militarily and politically by the United States and continues its destabilising actions."
"In Central America, the atmosphere of tension has declined, although the people of Nicaragua, after the guns have fallen silent, is now striving to achieve domestic stability and to overcome the difficult economic legacy of the war imposed on it for so many years. In El Salvador, the process initiated between the parties, with the participation of the Secretary-General, has not been carried out fully. In Guatemala, steps continue to be taken towards a domestic solution, but with no rapid development in sight."
"Cuba wishes again to place on record its support for the just demands of the Argentine people to recover its sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands and for the demands of the Government of Bolivia for a direct and useful outlet to the sea."
"The South African people, which in the recent past has achieved through its difficult struggle certain social changes providing a political space for the forces that have represented it, has not yet succeeded in doing away with all the barriers that exist or in burying once and for all the policy of apartheid. The international community must therefore continue to advocate the maintenance of economic sanctions against South Africa. Cuba reiterates that apartheid cannot be reformed - it must be completely eradicated."
"In the Americas, the Puerto Ricans, our brethren by virtue of blood and of struggle, still do not know when their land will cease being a colonial Territory of the United States. Indeed, at the very end of the twentieth century there are attempts further to impede their progress towards self-determination by means of the so-called referendum or plebiscite the United States Government is organizing, while the conditions are being readied to continue the spread of transnational corporations and nuclear military bases through the Territory in an attempt - a vain attempt - to erase its genuine Latin American identity and its historical and cultural roots."
"Notwithstanding the undoubted successes in the fight against colonialism in recent years, we must not forget that there remain more than 20 Territories with many millions of inhabitants still under colonial domination. The United Nations must redouble its efforts to make this decade the last for colonialism."
"Today the United Nations is the only forum suitable for confronting the major challenges facing mankind. The question of the environment, the drug problem and the needs of children undoubtedly require in-depth universal attention to find formulas for an effective solution. In all these cases, however, everyone must assume his share of the burden; it would be wrong to allocate the principal task to the developing countries or to lay the primary responsibility upon them."
"The Eighth Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders, recently held in Cuba with a level of participation exceeding that of previous congresses and with results that have been described as very successful both by the United Nations and by participants, is an example of how the growing problem of crime must be confronted."
"We cannot omit two basic issues: disarmament and economic questions."
"We view disarmament not only as a necessity but also, first and foremost, as an imperative for peace. There has been progress - which we welcome - in the  process between the two major nuclear Powers to reduce and eliminate nuclear weapons, and thus to remove the threat o nuclear conflict; but the danger has not yet been eliminated, and we cannot say that the progress made is irreversible."
"Cuba supports the possibility of converting the present partial nuclear-test ban into a total ban, in keeping with the demands of the international community."
"The failure of the recent review conference for the nuclear non-proliferation Treaty - where it was impossible to agree on the adoption of a final declaration - proves that there are still forces, in the United States in particular, which resist suspension of nuclear testing."
"We welcome the fact that the negotiations on conventional-arms reduction in Europe, in accordance with the special characteristics of that region, are moving forward."
"Intense work is under way on the subject of chemical weapons, but important questions remain unresolved. Cuba will continue to work in the negotiating body with a view to the swift adoption of a universal convention that will not impose limits or obstacles on the economic development of developing countries in this sphere, discriminate in any way among States parties or lead, through the retention by other States of their chemical arsenals, to weakened security for parties to the convention which do not possess chemical weapons."
"In the economic sphere, the contrast between the glimmers of light on the world political scene and the shadows which generally prevail in international economic relations is very disturbing. While there is a gradual process of detente and of closer relations between the two major world Powers and between East and West, North-South relations grow ever grimmer."
"In the decade that has just begun, we note that the abyss of inequality between the development levels of the industrialised countries and those of the underdeveloped countries continues to grow deeper, both in the economic and social sphere and in the area of science and technology."
"The wrongs condemned by President Fidel Castro in this Hall in 1979 have grown out of all proportion and have over the years reached unimagined levels. Horse still, there is no prospect of a real, lasting solution: the debt crisis, the net reverse transfer of financial resources, the growing deterioration of terms of trade, protectionism and diminishing sources of credit for development add up to a situation of total economic desperation and utter social insecurity for our countries. This is beginning to manifest itself in violent outbursts of social instability."
"Cuba's position on the external-debt crisis - which as President Fidel Castro has pointed out is now the main obstacle to development, the principal instrument for financial plunder and the most modern form of neo-colonial dependence imposed by developed countries - is well known to the international community. There is an urgent need for a comprehensive political solution to root out this evil; it must necessarily include total cancellation of the debt of all developing countries."
"One of the consequences of the debt crisis has been a constant deterioration of living standards in third-world countries. Almost 30 per cent of the economically active population is unemployed; more than 950 million people live in utter poverty; 195 million children below the age of five suffer from hunger; infant mortality is 10 times higher, on average, than it is in developed countries; 40,000 children die daily, most of them of preventable causes and of malnutrition; 900 million adults are illiterate; and hundreds of millions of people live in misery. That striking situation has caused us to dub the 1980s a lost decade for development. The longer we delay a substantive decision on this delicate problem, the more serious will be the consequences of inaction."
"Neither creditors nor debtors now doubt that the external debt of the underdeveloped countries is not only un-payable but uncollectable. The various modalities for exchanging debt for equity do not merely evidence a general acknowledgement of that fact, but also reveal that creditors are desperately scrambling to unload at the lowest possible cost debts they know cannot be recovered. Similarly, the various proposals made by the developed Hest in an attempt to resolve the crisis have proved inadequate and limited in scope - so much so that one can hardly talk of a global debt strategy at all."
"None the less, and bearing in mind the economic vulnerability of all our countries, Cuba is prepared to recognize and work on behalf of initiatives which, while not constituting substantive formulas, approach the question from an integrated and innovative point of view. This implies substantial debt reductions, the overall handling of all types of debt, and additional measures."
"In that spirit, my Government fully supported the results of the regional conference for Latin America and the Caribbean on external debt, recently held under the auspices of the Latin American Economic System (SELA); this could be a good beginning for a serious effort to achieve a solution of the indebtedness that is crushing our peoples."
"Like the rest of the developing world, my country is confronted with an unjust and discriminatory system of international economic relations. Whatever efforts individual countries may make in one direction or another, they will always be restricted in a world in which the imbalances I have mentioned persist. Thus, Cuba reaffirms yet again the validity of the principles of the Hew International Economic Order. We are convinced that true economic co-operation that fulfils the needs of development and economic growth of the developing countries requires, at the very least, application of those principles in addition to such further measures as, inter alia, cancellation of the third world's external debt, elaboration of universal co-operation on environmental and development problems and an international contribution to the necessary processes of economic integration in those countries."
"I cannot conclude without pointing out that, as in previous years, pressures and threats are still being directed against our people by our neighbour to the north. The Bush Administration is the eighth United States Administration that has persisted in carrying out hostile and aggressive actions against Cuba. The United States Government, in violation of international law, and particularly the 1982 Nairobi Convention, went to great lengths to carry out its project for intrusion into our television space, for the purpose of destabilization, with a pirate television station based on United States territory."
"We state with pride that through our people's intelligence and tenacity, that new United States act of aggression has been thwarted at a low cost to Cuba and that the pirate signal has been eradicated from our land. We are now also beginning to eliminate radio broadcasts that are also being beamed from United States territory for the same purposes."
"None the less, the criminal economic blockade that has been imposed against us continues, along with the violation of our waters and airspace in the naval base the United States arbitrarily maintains in our country and its aggressive military manoeuvres around it."
"Cuba, as in the past, reiterates its just demand for the return of land illegally occupied by the United States on our national territory. Our greatest desire is to live in peace and to use all our resources for the noble purpose of economic and social development. Nevertheless, the political blindness of the most reactionary circles in the United States leads them stubbornly to pursue their vain attempt to bring the Cuban revolution to its knees. We have said before and we say again today: the socialism being built by our people came into being as a result of its own struggle, and our people is now defending that socialism as its most valuable acquisition, since with it has come the social justice that was for so many years trampled underfoot, along with true sovereignty and national independence. That people, which has known justice, independence and liberty, will not give them up and will defend them"
"For Cubans, for the 10 million men and women who work, create, build and are prepared to defend the fruits of their labours, the situation is clear: the struggle for the revolution, for socialism, is not only the struggle for a better future. It is also the only way to defend our independence and our national identity. We shall not falter in that endeavour. We are sure our struggle can only end in victory."
"We are extremely happy to welcome the admission to membership of the United Nations at this forty-sixth session of the General Assembly the sister Democratic People's Republic of Korea, with which we share this moment of well-deserved jubilation; the Republics of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, to which we express again our desire to maintain our ties of friendship and collaboration with their emergence as independent countries; and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Korea, and the Federated States of Micronesia."
"We congratulate Ambassador Samir Shihabi on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at this session and we assure him that our delegation will cooperate fully with him with a view to ensuring the success of his important work."
"Today's world hardly resembles yesterday's world. The global imbalance of forces in favour of hegemonic that led to a unipolar world aroused the concern of many countries - and not only the small and underdeveloped ones. There has been a rather fat file in the past few years on the use of force as a way of solving international conflicts. The so-called end of the cold war; the process of harmonization and cooperation between East and West; the collapse of socialism in Eastern and Central Europe; the structural crisis in the Soviet Union, which today is discussing what its future will look like; the fashioning of a single military super-Power, the United States - all this paints a very dangerous picture that greatly disturbs the poor and underdeveloped countries of the South. Yet we have to examine the complexities of this new reality in depth, without fear, realizing that over the long term there is no force in the world that can crush the desire for freedom and independence of any people, however"
"made by the peoples; it is not simply written down on the maps at military headquarters."
"It is true that the world has changed. But what has changed for the hundreds of millions of persons living in a state of dire poverty? In 1990 alone, 14 million children died of hunger, cold, and diseases that were curable. What has changed for the wretched economies of most of the countries of the third world, which are in debt and starving, living in a state of permanent crisis and subjected to the tortures of unequal terms of trade and the cruel pieties of the powerful?"
"We can be happy about the end of the East-West confrontation because it removes the danger of nuclear holocaust. But the East wants to become the North, and the South is still the South. The contradictions between the developed North and the underdeveloped South are increasing. Hence, we must ask ourselves: what can the poor people expect from this agreement between the powerful? That is the reality we must face."
"At their recent Ministerial Conference held in Accra, the capital of Ghana, the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries reaffirmed their decision to continue the struggle to ensure the realization of their original principles, and they stated that the problems of underdevelopment and poverty are among the major factors that can threaten peace and security. They added that without peace it is impossible to struggle for development, and without the development of the peoples of the developing countries of the world it is impossible even to conceive of honourable and real peace - peace for everyone. That is the peace that our people want - a worthy, real, honourable peace that will enable us to work for our development."
"The United Nations must prepare itself to carry out, in these new conditions of the world today, the role set for it by its founders. Thus, it must go through a process of democratisation in all of its bodies, particularly those which, under the powers conferred on them by virtue of the Charter, have a greater role to play in carrying out some of the purposes that led to the establishment of the Organisation. Such is the case with the Security Council, which is governed by the anachronistic and dangerous veto power, which is an obstacle to the supreme functions of the General Assembly and which thereby makes a mockery of the will of the majority of the international community."
"This process should apply to the economic and social sectors of the United Nations, given the very important role that the Organization has to play in the restructuring and changing of the current system of international economic relations, replacing them by a just and fair system."
"It is necessary to revitalize the Secretariat and the intergovernmental mechanisms in the economic and social spheres, so that they may really be able to contribute to the socio-economic development of the developing countries through international cooperation. They would thereby be carrying out one of the basic purposes and principles of the United Nations."
"Moreover, we must work together to strengthen and revitalize the Economic and Social Council. A strengthened Council, with universal membership, would be better able to take up the new challenges that the pressing needs of the developing countries present, not only to the United Nations but to all of the bodies and agencies that are part of its system."
"The United Nations must contribute in a definite way to the solution of several conflicts that are still weighing on the conscience of mankind."
"The Palestinian people are still crying out for the right to exercise their Inalienable rights and to achieve an independent life as a sovereign State in Palestine. Cuba believes that the convening of an international peace conference on the Middle East, under the auspices of the United Nations, and with the participation of all parties concerned, including the Palestine Liberation Organisation (PLO) and Israel, is still the only real option that the international community has."
"We welcome the progress made by the South African national liberation movement in its struggle to eradicate apartheid and achieve a majority government, a non-racial and democratic government, based on the principle of \"one man, one vote\"."
"Similarly, we support the talks which, through the good offices of the Secretary-General, have been going on between the FMLN and the Government of El Salvador to find a real, lasting, peaceful solution to the tragedy of that brother people, without any outside interference or pressure. The agreement recently concluded in New York was an example of what can be accomplished through such talks. We would urge that by the year 2000 the process of decolonization be completed. It was begun just after the Second World War, with the accession to independence of all non-self-governing countries, and we would now welcome the accession to self-determination and independence of all, including our sister island of Puerto Rico, which is Latin American and Caribbean."
"We support the Secretary-General's efforts to implement the United Nations agreements aimed at achieving a final solution to the conflicts in Cambodia and Afghanistan and the effective decolonization of Western Sahara."
"We are encouraged here by the growing awareness of the need for unity and integration among the peoples of the third world. One great example of this was the recently concluded first Ibero-American summit conference in Guadalajara, Mexico. That was the first meeting in the history of those peoples that was convened and held apart from the will of the United States."
"We would like to repeat here before the General Assembly what we said in the Security Council to the effect that the people of Yugoslavia must themselves, without foreign interference, settle the differences that they have, and they must thereby achieve lasting peace, ensuring the united and non-aligned nature of their country."
"He must condemn the latest military coup in Haiti, which is seeking to reverse the democratic process which, only seven months ago, brought Father Jean-Bertrand Aristide to the presidency. The people of Haiti, the first in Latin America and the Caribbean to achieve independence, will triumph over their enemies."
"Traditionally, when we have spoken from this rostrum we have focused on analysing the international situation and we have often referred to the situation in my own country. On this occasion we wish to speak about Cuba, for recent international events and the continuation of the aggressive, hysterical campaign by the United States Administration against Cuba oblige us to do so."
"The expectations after the initial euphoria that some felt over the collapse of the socialist model as it was applied in Eastern Europe are growing daily - in particular, the expectations about this small but gigantic bastion of socialism that is called Cuba. So now, what is going to happen to Cuba? Enemies and friends of the Cuban revolution are asking this question. To disabuse the former, and as the latter are well aware, let us say to the"
"Assembly that the Cuban revolution was not just the result of a little Christmas present. It did not come to Havana on a tank manned by foreigners: it came on war transportation which had been seized by our fighters from the enemies of the people. It was the culmination of a long process, 100 years of struggle, by our people for our freedom and independence."
"The forty-sixth session of the General Assembly has on its agenda an item dealing with the economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed by the United States of America against Cuba, and so we feel it our duty to offer the Assembly some background information about that blockade and to describe to members some of its consequences."
"The historical background of the blockade has to be sought in the promulgation on 17 May 1959 of the law on agrarian reform. That law helped 250,000 rural families, but it affected North American interests, who owned most of the land in our country. So immediately the United States Government began its policy of pressure, using its privileged economic relations to try to blackmail our people. February of 1962 the United States Government decided on a total trade embargo on Cuba, prohibiting the importing of products of Cuban origin and of all products from or through Cuba, and in 1964 it banned the supply of food and medicine, thus making it a total blockade. It has been estimated that the damage done to our economy over the 30 years of this blockade amounted to over $15 billion worth of resources."
"Unfortunately - although no well-informed person would be surprised by this - the result is that after listening to many persons speak here, who for various reasons support an end to the blockade against Cuba, since they consider it to be an anachronism and immoral, the North Americans decreed - even after this forty-sixth session of the General Assembly had begun - new provisions which go so far they make its coercive action against Cuba almost irrational."
"Arbitrary economic limits have been imposed, first of all on United States companies involved in procedures and transportation that make it possible for Cubans who live on United States territory to meet with family members who live in Cuba. In the last few years, Cuba has established systematic and unequivocal measures to facilitate such meetings, and the North American Administration has taken a very hypocritical stand regarding them and has unleashed the vilest calumny. Yet now it is the United States that is using fallacious arguments virtually to cancel such meetings. This is a totalitarian and abusive action of State intervention and simply does not take into account the damaging consequences that it will have from the humanitarian standpoint."
"In his statement to the General Assembly in 1960, President Fidel Castro stated that at the beginning of this century:"
"\"After two years of military occupation of our country, something unexpected occurred. Just when the Cuban people, through a Constituent Assembly, were drafting the basic law of the Republic, another act was passed by the United States Congress, an act proposed by Senator Piatt, of unhappy memory for Cuba, in which it was laid down that a rider was to be attached to the Cuban Constitution whereby the United States Government would be granted the right to intervene in Cuban political affairs and, in addition, the right to lease certain parts of Cuban territory for naval bases or coaling stations.\" (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifteenth Session, Plenary Meetings, 872nd Meeting, para. $7)."
"Years later, after a long struggle by the Cuban people, the Piatt Amendment was repealed, but the naval base at Guantanamo, which resulted from it during the North American military occupation of Cuba, is still on our territory. It is an affront to the national dignity of the Cuban people, and we have repeatedly demanded that the land illegally occupied in Cuba be returned to it."
"Cuba's name has been mentioned several times during the general debate at this forty-sixth session of the General Assembly. In his far from brilliant debut as the supreme leader of the fate and actions of all the peoples on Earth, the North American President, who had promised representatives a different kind of speech, indulged in his usual anti-Cuban litany. Once again, he assumed the role of interpreter of the feelings of the Cuban people, giving free rein to this sick obsession with us. Nevertheless, it must be"
"admitted that, despite all his raving, this setting is a little more appropriate than the golf courses from which he usually pronounces judgements on major international events."
"In his verdict - whose content is closely akin to the intolerance and ridicule of a neo-McCarthyism that is as far-reaching as the Inquisition was - the President of the United States condemned my country's social system, insulted our Government and offended our entire people. This is the new imperial Olympians' view of the new era of harmony and concord they want us to enter."
"It is incredible that in these times and here in the United Nations those who are directly responsible for the existence in the world today of the most inhuman system of exploitation and plunder, which has plunged almost 100 nations into conditions of abject poverty never before experienced by mankind, should dare to preach sermons and lecture to us on democracy and human and political rights. It is incredible that those who want to make a crusade out of democracy have for years based their policies on force, threats, pressure and blackmail, have destabilized so many nations and States, have imposed dirty wars on them, have tried to bring them to their knees by hunger or economic violence, or have simply invaded them."
"It is incredible that they are trying to sell us violence, exploitation, brutality and crime as a model for society. Those that defend the so-called intrinsic good of the market-economy system forget that almost all the underdeveloped countries are using that model and that for most of their peoples this has meant infinite wretchedness, unemployment, lack of health care, hunger, illiteracy, marginalization and the most horrible social scourges. They forget also that within this opulent North American society more than 33 million human beings, most of them black and Hispanic, are living"
"in abject poverty; that millions of children are abandoned, abused or subjected to violence; that more and more old people are defenceless. They forget that this is the society with the highest crime rate in the world; that this is now the world centre for organizing that evil drug-trafficking chain which has become a virtual supra-national business; and that this is the major consular of cocaine, heroin, crack and marijuana in the world."
"Perhaps it is because our people know these facts that they so solidly, strongly and resolutely support our political system, our Government and our revolution."
"The aim is to deny our people the right to live and work under the social system they have chosen through free and sovereign decisions such as the referendum in which 98 per cent of the Cuban people voted by secret ballot when our socialist Constitution was submitted to our population."
"Even under the conditions of underdevelopment from which we started, and even though for over 30 years we have been subjected to all kinds of aggression - the most brutal and inhuman form being the economic and trade blockade, which was designed to suffocate us - Cuba has had extraordinary success in the economic, political, social, scientific and cultural areas. Let me mention a few of our achievements: equality in a society in which all have equal rights and opportunities; safety; stability; social coexistence on a broad popular base; and forms of participatory democracy that are very strong and innovative. We can indeed say that ours is a society of solidarity and justice. Ethical and moral principles prevail and national dignity is an irreversible principle. Hence, we have a very deep spirit of internationalism, as is evident from the fact that we send thousands of doctors, technicians and teachers to work without pay in more than 30 countries of the third world."
"In our country, the main social services, such as health, education and culture, are free. One hundred per cent of our people are entitled to social security. Income is distributed fairly and equitably and there is no exploitation or abuse. That is why we do not have children who are abandoned, who are beggars; we do not have old people who are defenceless; we do not have people who are marginalised. We have never encouraged consumerism. Our country has established an impressive social, health, education and production infrastructure. We can state that as a result of our revolution the people of Cuba have achieved a standard of living comparable to that of many developed countries - but in our country there are far fewer cases of violence, delinquency and crime and we do not produce, distribute or use drugs."
"The United Nations Development Programme and such bodies as the World Health Organization and the United Nations Children's Fund which study the main social indicators at the international level have pointed out the indisputable fact that in these indicators Cuba is at a level similar to that of most developed countries, and on an even higher level than some of them. Some vital indicators, of transcendental social importance - such as infant mortality, mortality of children under the age of five, maternal mortality, life expectancy at birth, the number of people going to school, the number of people that stay in school, literacy, the number of doctors and teachers per capita, income distribution, caloric intake, and many others - are the result of the efforts made by a society whose primary objective is to ensure the well-being of its people."
"We, of course, respect everyone's political beliefs and freedom of choice, but Cuba has not experienced such respect on the part of others. Until 1959 this system, which is so dogmatically being pushed today as the only possible formula, imposed on the Cuban people the most dreadful economic backwardness, a lack of basic individual and social rights and total neo-colonial dependency, poverty, illiteracy, ignorance and bloodthirsty tyranny - all of which enjoyed the consent and approval of the United States - in Cuba was synonymous with underdeveloped and dependent capitalism. And now we are being asked to return to that situation in the name of being up to date - just because the historical experiment in the old socialist States of Europe has failed - and in the same triumphant manner as the feudal lords returned to their old palaces after reinstatement."
"The Cuban Revolution, which was won in spite of the blockade and the hostility against it, can no doubt be improved, as can any human undertaking. However, it is the closest we have come in our history towards achieving social justice and national dignity."
"We will never abandon it. We will improve it ourselves. The overwhelming majority of Cubans will do so despite the cynical arrogance of the President of a country whose wealth is derived from plunder and oppression."
"One of our dearest aspirations is to ensure greater popular and democratic participation in adopting all the vital decisions and in consolidating our social co-existence which is unprecedented in Cuba's history because it is founded on justice and equity. These aspirations reflect our true national consensus, which we would be able to achieve more speedily were it not for the 30 years of economic blockade, hostile actions, efforts made to isolate and condemn us unjustly before the international community and for all kinds of pressures and a permanent threat of military aggression."
"There are other references to Cuba that can be ignored. Having already commented upon the point of view behind the American broadsides, I do not believe that I should take up the Assembly's time to exercise the right of reply to a statement, hastily and awkwardly translated into Spanish, based on the Yankee arguments against Cuba which, unfortunately, were read out in Spanish from this very rostrum."
"My delegation, however, would like to state for the record that we have great respect, among other well-known statesmen and colleagues, for the President of Venezuela, Mr. Carlos Andres Perez, owing to his unquestioned courage and his consistent approach when in addressing the Assembly he spoke of his approach in the search for an end to the confrontation between the United States and Cuba."
"It is no secret that, in addition to sharing views with Venezuela, there are also differing political views between us. But this does not prevent us from having a useful and constructive relationship with such an important country in our region."
"We can distinguish between those who call for changes but merely want the example of Cuba to disappear and those who are genuinely concerned about the future of our country."
"To the fraternal President of Venezuela, we say that Cuba is always willing to consider its differences with the United States without preconditions of any type, on the basis of equality and mutual respect, even apart from the fact that one cannot equate Cuba - a besieged, harassed and blockaded country that is being asked to change - with the United States, the most powerful country in the world."
"As members know, the President of the Soviet Union recently stated unilaterally that he was willing to withdraw what he called the Soviet Armed Forces Training Brigade from our country."
"Since our people chose the path to independence, in 1959, and decided to exercise its sovereign rights, we have suffered not only from threats but also from aggression of all kinds. Under those prevailing circumstances, when the then leaders of the Soviet Union suggested that missiles capable of carrying nuclear warheads should be stationed in Cuba, our acceptance was motivated not only by the legitimate right to defend ourselves with arms equal to those of the countries that threatened us but also by the feeling that we would thus be contributing to strengthening the socialist camp and, in particular, the Soviet Union, at a time when the threat of imperialist aggression was becoming real and that that decision could have made it possible to avoid such an attack."
"In the days of the October crisis, the Revolutionary Government, through the statement by its Prime Minister of 28 October 1962, set forth the five points that it deemed to be essential in order to guarantee genuine peace in Cuba:"
"\"First, a halt to the economic blockade and all measures of trade and economic pressure applied by the United States in all parts of the world against our country;"
"Secondly, a halt to all subversive activities, the launch and landing of weapons and explosives by air and sea, the organization of invasions by mercenaries, the infiltration of spies and saboteurs - activities against us launched from the territory of the United States and of some collaborating countries; Thirdly, a halt to pirate-like attacks launched from existing bases in the United States and Puerto Rico;"
"Fourthly, a halt to all violations of our air and naval space by United States warships and aircraft;"
"Fifthly, withdrawal from the Guantanamo naval base, and the return of Cuban territory occupied by the United States.\""
"As a result of that crisis, and after the unilateral decision taken by the Government of the Soviet Union to withdraw the missiles from Cuba, the Governments of Cuba and the Soviet Union decided to keep a Soviet military unit on Cuban territory. The unit was symbolic, for its forces were never strong enough to defend Cuba; however, it was an expression of friendship and solidarity, given the threats from the United States."
"When in 1979, after a period of 17 years, the United States, as part of its vain attempts to prevent the convening in Cuba of the Sixth Summit of the Non-Aligned Movement, exposed the presence in Cuba of a Motorized Brigade of the Soviet Armed Forces, the then Soviet leadership, without prior consultation with our Government, yielded to American pressure and made statements that, with the acceptance of the American authorities, in theory transformed that combat unit, which was to be activated in case of invasion from the United States, into a supposedly harmless study centre."
"The presence of the Soviet military contingent in Cuba, which continued to be a combat unit, retaining all its military means and missions, would not have been necessary had we secured genuine guarantees for a lasting peace, which could have been achieved if only the demands our Government made in 1962 in the \"five points\" I have referred to had been acceded to - and these points retain their validity to this day. If, at least, the case for withdrawal from"
"the Guantanamo naval base had been adequately made, there would be no American or Soviet troops in Cuba today."
"The guarantees we called (or still do not exist."
"The Government of Cuba would be prepared to accept the simultaneous withdrawal from our country of the Soviet and American military personnel. In the circumstances, this would be the only equitable, just and honourable way"
"out."
"The United States has not discarded the option of a major attack against Cuba. While spokesmen of the Department of State and some officials of the Bush Administration assure us publicly and through the diplomatic channel that they have no aggressive intentions or plans vis--vis Cuba, the Pentagon thinks and acts quite differently."
"We invite all those who believe the promises of the Bush Administration to ask their representatives what are the contingency plans behind the military exercises of the 101st Airborne Division that began on 16 December and, as scheduled by the Pentagon, will continue until 16 0ctober7"
"For 35 days, in Fort Chafee, Arkansas, the so-called Screeching Eagles will participate in a low-intensity-conflict scenario, which will gradually escalate to a medium-intensity level, in a place of dense vegetation, against an enemy that uses tactics similar to those of the Soviets. Where does the Pentagon think that such conditions might exist, if not in Cuba?"
"The peace that we want is real peace - a peace of dignity, a peace that will be for all States, large and small, weak and powerful."
"Speaking from this rostrum 31 years ago. President Fidel Castro said: \"When we small countries seek to be free, we know that we must become free by our own efforts and at our own risk. When a people is united and is defending a just cause, it can trust in its own strength. In Cuba we are not, as we have been alleged to be, a group of men governing a country. We are a people governing a country, an entire nation resolutely united in an unshakeable revolutionary spirit in defence of its rights. This is something that the enemies of the revolution and of Cuba should know for if they ignore it they are grievously mistaken.\" (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifteenth Session, Plenary Meetings, 872nd meeting, para 132)"
"On that occasion President Castro said also:"
"\"With all due respect to this Organization, I must say that our people, the people of Cuba, have learned much; they are, and I say this with pride, equal to the task they are undertaking, to the heroic struggle they are waging; they have learnt, a lesson from recent international events and they know that at the eleventh hour, when their rights have been denied, when the forces of aggression are marshalled against them, when their rights are not protected either in the Organization of American States or in the United Nations, there still remains to them the ultimate and heroic remedy of resistance.\" (ibid., para. 131) This has been our position of principle. It has been stated and it has been applied over the past 38 years. This traditional policy has been fully supported by our people. With their weapons in their hands, they are willing to defend our independence, our freedom, our right to have the social system that we want, the system that suits our needs and our interests."
"The defence of our revolution has been based on the principle of the involvement of all the people. It has been based on the involvement of all our citizens in the defence of our country, on their being part of our armed forces, our people's militias, because they are absolutely convinced that any enemy daring to invade our country will not find an absence of resistance anywhere, will have not a moment without struggle, not a moment's respite, until the enemy has left our country. No enemy will ever be able to crush or corrupt us. Our people - the authors of the Cuban revolution - have proclaimed a thousand times that they will continue our work because they know that our battle is part of the struggle for true independence, freedom and development for all peoples. We shall hold high the flag of socialism, which our country defends. We shall defend our nationality. We shall continue to hold our socialist principles - socialism or death; our country or death - because we know that we shall triumph."
"I wish"
"to congratulate Mr. Ganev on his election to the presidency of the General"
"Assembly at this session. He can be sure of the cooperation of the Cuban"
"delegation."
"We shall soon be commemorating the five hundredth anniversary of the clash"
"between two worlds and the beginning of an era that was to transform radically"
"relations between nations. That dramatic and as yet unfinished piece of"
"history started in the Caribbean Sea and forever left its mark upon the fate"
"of the peoples of the area."
"Our deepest root, which gave us life as a nation and a place in history,"
"is our rebelliousness. For centuries the Caribbean was the victim of the"
"brutal greed of all sorts of intruders, the crossroads of slave-traders and"
"pirates, of traffickers and invaders; violence and cruelty were its constant"
"scourges. But it was also witness to the heroic resistance of its peoples,"
"which time and again rose up, pushed by the powerful and anonymous force of"
"the Caribbean winds, in their eagerness to achieve their freedom. While the"
"plundering of its resources and the iniquitous exploitation of its people led"
"the Caribbean to its encounter with the rest of the world, it was the struggle"
"to abolish all kinds of servitude and to have no master other than our own"
"conscience, which shaped our profound and irreducible identity and allowed us"
"to discover ourselves."
"The Assembly is meeting at a crucial moment of definition. Today, as"
"five centuries ago, we are faced with attempts to reshape the world and"
"reorder relations between nations. Today, as in the past, the idea is to"
"determine whether the future will allow human solidarity to flourish or"
"whether it will still be weighed down by selfishness; whether it will one day"
"lead to the emancipation of the dispossessed, or whether it will for ever"
"perpetuate their tragedy; whether we are on the verge of a new colonizing"
"adventure, or whether, at long last, hope will begin to emerge for the poor of"
"this Earth."
"In recent years humanity has been surprised by a series of developments"
"which have radically changed important elements of international relations and"
"have led to an avalanche of hasty interpretations and conclusions promoted by"
"the unrestrained haste of the privileged and the naive optimism of many others."
"The end of the cold war, and with it the lessening of the danger of a"
"nuclear holocaust, should not be used to attempt to conceal what everyone"
"knows. It is true that military confrontation between the super-Powers"
"which threatened mankind with extermination never happened, and that the"
"rancorous antagonism of yesteryear was transformed through the unilateral"
"incantation of a baffling kind of alchemy into complacent subordination and a"
"show of fondness. That that war never occurred is of course salutary and"
"deserving of praise, but to identify with that fact the emergence of universal"
"peace is an absurdity which can make sense only from the profoundly racist"
"perspective of the new conquerors."
"The period which now seems to be coming to an end was for the third world"
"a period of hard-fought struggles for independence and freedom. While"
"threatening with a battle which never occurred, imperialists used"
"all their means and resources to invade, attack, repress and oppress the"
"peoples of the South; many of their sons and daughters fell in confrontations"
"which had nothing to do with the rivalries between the powerful, and they died"
"without knowing how that antagonism was to be transmuted into a bizarre"
"convergence."
"Just as the existence of the cold war did not alter the fate of the"
"third world, its disappearance does not, so far, seem to be benefiting its"
"peoples. The previous balance of power that contained the opposing blocs and"
"avoided a direct military conflict between them did not prevent the practice"
"of war, aggression and intervention against the third world."
"We have no reason to imagine that the effects of the present conditions"
"of unipolarity and hegemonism will be more favourable to our peoples. On the"
"contrary, dangers are greater than ever in the face of a triumphant ecstasy on"
"the part of those who are in possession not only of the largest military power"
"but also of an insurmountable historical ignorance and the most gross moral"
"callousness."
"The cold war is disappearing, but the arms race is not being reduced in"
"parallel, nor are militarism and bellicose mentalities being abandoned. If"
"the danger of war has been reduced, why does the United States aspire to"
"continue developing its military superiority, as was recently announced by the"
"occupant of the White House? Against whom will the empire now direct its"
"weapons?"
"We hear unending rhetoric about the end of confrontation and the"
"beginning of a new era of international cooperation, but it seems to exist"
"only in the imagination of those so gullible as to believe it. If a spirit of"
"international cooperation does really exist and if the cold war has ended, why"
"are the military expenditures of the big Powers not being drastically reduced"
"and why are the resources thus released not being channelled to the promotion"
"of development in underdeveloped countries? How can it be explained that"
"now precisely now attempts are being made to reduce international"
"cooperation for development to an even more subordinate and hypothetical role,"
"further to diminish the already limited presence of the United Nations in that"
"field and also to introduce unacceptable conditionalities and restrictions?"
"The changes that have occurred between the countries of the North have"
"no meaning for the majority of the inhabitants of the planet. If those"
"changes are to make some sense for them, it is necessary to undertake decisive"
"and effective action against the hunger and poverty which affect hundreds of"
"millions of people in the third world; and against infant malnutrition and"
"incurable diseases which are daily taking the lives of thousands of children"
"in an ongoing and silent war that some choose to ignore."
"The economic crisis, the external debt of the third world, which has"
"risen to the figure of $1.50 trillion, unequal exchange, and increased hunger"
"and poverty have never been greater amongst the immense majority of mankind."
"Their effects are staggering even for the most solid economies of the world."
"Open subsidies and other selfish policies threaten to impede the conclusion of"
"agreements which have been in course of negotiation for years to regulate"
"international trade and which may provoke disastrous confrontations between"
"the large economic Powers. This clearly demonstrates that the history of"
"capitalism cannot escape its terrible and self-destructive laws."
"There is meagre cause for optimism at present, when many cannot even"
"defy the consequences of recalling the principles of the new international"
"economic order solemnly proclaimed by the Assembly in times that were"
"supposedly less favourable for international cooperation."
"True, universal and durable peace will be possible only in a world full"
"of hegemony, based on the rights, interests and aspirations of all peoples, in"
"a world in which the purposes and principles of the San Francisco Charter will"
"become a reality and, in particular, in a world which pays full respect to the"
"sovereign equality of States, non-intervention and non-interference in the"
"internal affairs of States, self-determination of peoples, and the right to"
"development."
"But to achieve this, it is indispensable to democratize international"
"relations and the United Nations, providing the Organization with the"
"conditions necessary for it to fulfil the mission for which it should exist."
"The United Nations cannot be reduced to a simple instrument of"
"domination by the powerful. Member States must prevent that; if they do not"
"they would in practice be permitting its termination and the elimination of"
"all possibility of achieving an equitable and peaceful world."
"We must not accept the Security Council's operating as a secret society,"
"turning its back on the Organization which created it and in whose name it"
"should be acting; we must not accept its assuming functions which it does not"
"have and which no one has conferred upon it. The Security Council's"
"composition, functions and modus operandi must be urgently examined in depth"
"so that it can become a truly representative body, so that the anachronistic"
"and anti-democratic veto privilege can be eliminated and transparency can be"
"introduced into its activities, while limiting them strictly to those set down"
"in the Charter, and so that it will fully respect the obligation enshrined in"
"the Charter to be accountable to the General Assembly, which, in turn, should"
"strictly fulfil its responsibility to exercise control over the Council."
"The Security Council has no authority whatsoever to interpret the Charter"
"or to broaden the scope of its powers, or to carry out all the orders coming"
"from its surreptitious informal gatherings. We must not tolerate the use of"
"the Council by those who so frequently defile the ideals of democracy as an"
"instrument for carrying out a virtual coup d'etat in the United Nations. Nor"
"can we we allow ideas to take hold that would introduce the concept of limited"
"sovereignty and promote the creation of mechanisms that would result in"
"converting the Organization into a permanent source of intrusion, interference"
"and intervention, to the benefit of the interests of the powerful."
"The Organization must be democratized in order to strengthen its role and"
"enhance its efficiency. To that end, it is indispensable to reinforce, not to"
"weaken, the responsibilities of the General Assembly as the sole body in which"
"all of us have equal responsibilities and which therefore has the capacity to"
"represent the international community as a whole."
"During the tenth summit conference that we held at Jakarta early this"
"month, the non-aligned countries adopted a common platform to face the present"
"international situation and to ensure concerted action in the United Nations."
"The Jakarta Message, the Final Document and the resolutions that were adopted"
"should become our tools to mobilize the third world in defence of its rights"
"and to organize our resistance to those who are attempting to impose a"
"self-styled new world order, which was conceived against, and without taking"
"into account the interests of, the peoples of the South and which would"
"constitute nothing but the installation on a global scale of the kind of"
"hegemonistic delusions upon the cinders of which this Organization was created."
"The aims of those who are concocting the reorganization of the world,"
"with a view to dominating it, are becoming increasingly obvious."
"Underdevelopment and poverty would be permanently reserved for the peoples of"
"the South, which constitute three quarters of humankind, and they would"
"continue to be the providers of wealth for the affluent minorities of the"
"North. International bodies would be converted into mechanisms for domination"
"and intervention to guarantee a world system where the powerful would impose"
"their corrupted ideas and values. The new conquerors are not bearers of the"
"cross; rather, they brandish the sword and the moneybag, and the only gospel"
"they preach is profits."
"Cynically they proclaim themselves the representatives of a superior"
"society and they go so far as to attempt to present themselves as the very"
"image of democracy, freedom and human rights. With the same arrogance shown"
"by their colonialist ancestors, with the same haughtiness shown by their"
"fascist inspirers, today's hegemonists boast about the alleged superiority of"
"their societies, their way of life, their ideas, beliefs and values, and use"
"every means in attempting to impose them upon other peoples."
"They are attempting to impose not only their ideas, but also their"
"\"justice\", which lacks the slightest equity and which, even within the"
"territory of the United States, and with an openly racist point of view,"
"pronounces the harshest sentences, including the death penalty, on, almost"
"exclusively, blacks and hispanics. What is the sense of, and how can we"
"condone, the decision of that country's Supreme Court which legalized the"
"right to kidnap anyone of any nationality in any part of the world? Has"
"mankind ever seen such an abuse of power and high-handedness at any other"
"stage in its history?"
"At the same time, encouraged by the setbacks of European socialism, they"
"are trying to decree the end of socialist ideals and to impose capitalism, in"
"its most uncontrolled fashion, as the sole, definitive and permanent model to"
"be applied around the world. They proclaim the so-called neo-liberal formulas"
"as dogma which everyone must observe and they do not even blush when they"
"portray themselves as having the exclusive recipe for mankind's prosperity and"
"happiness."
"Millions of dollars that could be devoted to more noble purposes are"
"being spent today in selling those ideas. But the peoples of the third world"
"have not forgotten that it was the unrestrained voraciousness of capitalism"
"that compelled them to endure the long and harsh experience of colonialism,"
"that crushed them with racism and discrimination, that subjected them to the"
"backwardness and poverty still besetting them. Capitalism was and is the"
"essential cause of the evils afflicting our peoples; it can never be their"
"solution."
"The euphoric promoters of so-called neo-liberalism are overcome with joy"
"when they see the bankruptcy of a number of socialist projects which, as is"
"well known, lasted barely a few decades and were tested in adverse conditions"
"and in comparatively less developed countries."
"Those who exult over the failure of some socialist societies should be"
"capable of demonstrating that capitalism is solving the problems of mankind or"
"at least that it is doing so somewhere. After all, capitalism has been the"
"predominant system in the world for centuries and has come to full development"
"in some of the more wealthy countries. But, after more than 200 years of"
"capitalism in a rich, developed and powerful country such as the United"
"States, the population as a whole still lacks a health system; millions are"
"calling for employment, housing, education and protection in their old age or"
"are suffering the consequences of drug addiction, violence and other social"
"evils; and tens of millions are victims of the worst expressions of racism and"
"racial discrimination. The most powerful country has not been able in two"
"centuries to solve any of those problems through capitalism, although it not"
"only has been able to rely on its own wealth but also has been pitilessly"
"exploiting other peoples during that lengthy period."
"Certain turncoats may kneel before that deceptive golden calf, but to"
"understand the failure of capitalism as a social project it is not necessary"
"to read Karl Marx one need only take stroll through the New York or Los"
"Angeles inner city. The American dream may dazzle some weak minds, but for"
"broad, and growing, sectors in this country and, above all, for tens of"
"millions of Afro-Americans, Latinos, native Americans and Asians, the"
"unemployed, the poor and the destitute - that dream has been, and is, a"
"bitter, sad and perpetual nightmare."
"On what moral grounds can profoundly unjust societies present themselves"
"as a universal archetype when the inordinate consumption patterns and the"
"extravagance of their insolent minorities mock the plight of countless others"
"in their midst who are suffering a life as miserable as that of the poorest in"
"the third world? In terms of human solidarity they have nothing to teach us;"
"on the contrary, they have much to learn from us."
"In truth, not only is the type of society that would be imposed upon us"
"intrinsically unjust and inhuman: it threatens the survival of the human"
"species - indeed, life itself on our planet. The irrational consumption"
"patterns of the wealthy exhaust non-renewable resources, poison oceans and"
"rivers, make the air in our cities unbreathable, adversely change the climate,"
"dangerously raise the sea level, irreparably damage the soil, destroy forests,"
"enlarge deserts and deepen the poverty of hundreds of millions of human"
"beings. The environment is also the victim of a relentless war that has"
"already caused the death of numerous species and is putting many others in"
"danger of extinction."
"When will it be man's turn to fall victim to his own folly? For how long"
"will a lifestyle that condemns each and every one of us to death continue to"
"be worshipped?"
"I address this Assembly at what is, for Cuba, a particularly difficult"
"time. The economic, commercial and financial blockade imposed by the United"
"States against the Cuban people has been in force for more than 30 years, but"
"it is now being intensified and extended. While talking hypocritically of"
"peace and international cooperation, the Government in Washington forbids"
"foreign vessels involved in any business with Cuba to enter United States"
"ports and tries to compel corporations based in other countries to follow its"
"anti-Cuban policy. Thus it is grossly violating not only the most basic"
"rights of my people but also the sovereignty of other countries and the"
"fundamental principles and norms of international law."
"While former adversaries become partners, and while the number of"
"countries to which Washington applies economic restrictions diminishes, the"
"budget and resources of the Government office entrusted with enforcement of"
"those restrictions have been increased, and it is publicly acknowledged that"
"those actions are geared towards reinforcement of the blockade against Cuba."
"The United States obstructs Cuban economic and commercial activities world"
"wide. It strives to prevent us from purchasing oil, foodstuffs and medicines;"
"puts pressure on investors and businessmen; and, more than once, has been able"
"to intimidate others, and thus frustrate entirely legitimate operations, by"
"its stubborn and criminal attempts to starve our people into surrender."
"Never before, other than in the course of war, has a people been"
"subjected to such rigorous, prolonged and total attack. This aggression is"
"being carried out against a small and poor country - a country with very few"
"natural resources, and no substantial sources of energy; a country whose"
"development prospects are totally dependent on foreign trade; a country that"
"receives no credit or finance from international organizations; a country to"
"which even various types of humanitarian aid are restricted. And now attempts"
"are being made even to prevent us from trading."
"The blockade is being intensified at a time when Cuba is suffering an"
"extremely trying situation arising from the dissolution of the Socialist bloc,"
"the disintegration of the Soviet Union and the sudden and radical change in"
"relations with the countries with which we conducted 80 per cent of our trade,"
"as well as from the abrupt disappearance of the fair and equitable prices that"
"governed those relations. This has meant the loss of 70 per cent of Cuba's"
"purchasing power the figure having fallen from $8,139 million in 1989 to"
"$2.2 million this year. In truth, Cuba is confronted by a double blockade"
"that is becoming harsher and more implacable every day."
"Indeed, the enormous damage to our economy has had inevitable"
"repercussions for the living standards and consumption levels of the"
"population, as well as for the country's production and development"
"programmes. In these grave circumstances the imperialists nurture the hope"
"that, by making their blockade tougher and more oppressive, they will be able"
"to create conditions of poverty and hunger and, thus, make our people"
"surrender. However, that is nothing but a foolish hope. Those who seek to"
"annihilate us are ignoring the fact that Cuba's main resource - its only true"
"wealth is its people."
"Only a united, informed and resolute people, a people prepared to fight"
"for what it wants to achieve, a people whose social relations are governed by"
"equity and solidarity, can confront and overcome such adversity. Only in a"
"society such as that of Cuba could such disastrous conditions have occurred"
"without leading to the closure of a single school, to neglect of the health of"
"a single child or elderly man or woman, or to the abandonment of a single"
"citizen. Can the same be said of our rabid enemies or our hypocritical"
"critics?"
"There is no greater proof of the strength of our social system or of the"
"implacable resolve and unity of the Cuban people in defence of its revolution"
"than the heroic popular resistance to this imperialist onslaught. How many"
"countries have endured such a trial?"
"But this large-scale economic warfare is not the only action being taken"
"against Cuba. Part of our territory continues to be illegally occupied by a"
"United States military base, which is the source of frequent provocation; the"
"air above and the sea around the country are constantly being used for"
"manoeuvres by the mighty who assault us; more than 1,500 hours of aggressive"
"radio broadcasts are transmitted to Cuba weekly, and there have been"
"unsuccessful attempts to invade our television spectrum; the territory of the"
"United States is used openly and shamelessly, and with the apparent complicity"
"of the authorities of that country, for the purpose of carrying out terrorist"
"attacks against us; and Cuba is being subjected to a systematic campaign of"
"slander to distort the image of a country which the United States has not been"
"able to defeat and which refuses to renounce its independence."
"As it has not been able to bend us to its will, imperialism threatens us"
"with extermination and endeavours to compel the rest of the world to acquiesce"
"to its genocidal infamy. The Yankee blockade is a brutal violation of the"
"rights of all the Cuban people and of international norms and the sovereignty"
"of other countries. It is, above all, a moral disgrace."
"Those who think they can bring Cuba to its knees are mistaken. Our"
"people has travelled a long road to achieve its full emancipation. It started"
"its trek, totally alone, more than 120 years ago. Within its limited island"
"space, without allies, without the material support of any Government, it"
"struggled for three decades against a better and larger military force than"
"the total of the forces which Spain had used to combat rebellion in all its"
"other colonies. Attempts were made even then to isolate our people from the"
"rest of the world; even then the oppressor found accomplices; even then"
"attempts were made to compel our people to surrender because of hunger, and a"
"substantial part of our population was annihilated."
"The Puerto Rican patriot, Eugenio Maria de Hostos, described those"
"painful times for Cuba in the following words:"
"\"It is necessary to imagine oneself in that terrifying situation,"
"the most tragic ever faced by any people: deprived of everything itself,"
"while its enemy possesses all the power and resources of civilization;"
"abandoned, while its enemy is abetted; disdained, while its enemy is"
"flattered by the complicity of all. It is necessary to be able to feel"
"all the torments of the agony of many years to understand how long a"
"revolution lasts, to realize how much time passes, to understand the"
"prodigious resistance of the combatants, to appreciate their heroism, to"
"be worthy of admiring those admirable men ..."
"\"It is necessary to live in such infamous times, stumbling through"
"the darkness of injustice, to feel for those men, elevated by their own"
"efforts to the dignity of complete men, all the enthusiastic reverence,"
"all the impulsive admiration, inspired by those capable of heroically"
"representing the highest virtues of mankind.\""
"Those times referred to by Hostos were certainly even more difficult for"
"our people. Today we are facing an enemy more powerful than Spain was then,"
"but we have a united, brave people, worthy heirs of those combatants who never"
"retreated despite the greatest misfortunes. We will never betray their"
"memory; we will never renounce a fatherland which we liberated with rivers of"
"blood and sacrifice."
"We also rely on the solidarity of peoples. We know that the oppressed,"
"the exploited and the victims of discrimination on this Earth who place their"
"hopes in Cuba's survival are many."
"For our dead, and for those who hope for a worthy life, we will continue"
"resisting. We will not betray the mandate of our ancestors and the confidence"
"of peoples. We will prove ourselves capable of resisting and we will know how"
"to resist."
"We will continue to pursue our most sacred duty: to save the fatherland,"
"the revolution and socialism. For their sake, we shall continue our struggle,"
"without hesitating, despite all obstacles, hard and difficult though"
"circumstances may be; ever onward to victory."
"I come from a free, small and sovereign"
"island in Latin America. My ancestors were able to shed the"
"yoke of a colonial empire and achieve an independence that,"
"since the moment of its birth, has been burdened by the"
"interventionist impositions of a foreign power. I belong to"
"a people that was able, for several generations, to forge an"
"authentic revolution, which also opened the path to hope for"
"other peoples of the Third World."
"For these reasons, and as a Caribbean people, we are"
"doubly proud of having you, Mr. President, presiding over"
"this session. Because you are a son of that South that makes"
"us brothers, we are convinced that that world and its hopes"
"will not be ignored once again. In that just aspiration you"
"will certainly find Cubas support."
"Conditions in the world have radically changed in less"
"than five years. Bipolar balance is being replaced by"
"unipolar hegemony. The world is increasingly plagued by"
"still insuperable contradictions between words and deeds."
"While it is said that the threat of a nuclear holocaust has"
"disappeared, the poverty and underdevelopment that cause"
"misery and death are continuing. Millions of men, women"
"and children die every day, with no possibility of being"
"saved. It is said that the arms race between the superPowers has ended"
"develop new weapons systems and even to introduce them"
"to outer space."
"Today, the warlords aspire to rule the skies without"
"having resolved many of the problems on Earth."
"Paradoxically, they argue that they lack the resources to do"
"so, while the world today is becoming increasingly"
"ungovernable because of them. The total budget of the"
"World Health Organization equals the expenditures caused"
"by three hours of the arms race. How can hunger in"
"Somalia be alleviated, for example, if for every dollar used"
"to feed the hungry, $10 are spent on the maintenance of"
"military operations in that country?"
"The existence of treaties on a partial ban of nuclear"
"tests and on a moratorium, or on the non-proliferation of"
"such weapons, is not enough. A single agreement would"
"suffice, one providing for general and complete disarmament"
"and for the use of the enormous resources that would thus"
"cease to be squandered for the final resolution of our"
"planets serious problems."
"Regrettably, the end of the cold war has not resolved"
"any of the fundamental problems facing humankind; instead,"
"it has created many others. The sacred principles of"
"independence and national sovereignty are being shredded to"
"pieces, and are guaranteed only to a few powerful countries"
"whose views prevail even in this lofty Organization. The"
"United Nations was created, among other objectives, for the"
"achievement of a lasting peace, justice and equality in"
"international relations. Some things have been done, but"
"much remains to be done for the benefit of human beings"
"and of peoples."
"While the longstanding problems of the Third World"
"persist and become more acute, aggravated by stagnation in"
"development assistance, what peace can we speak of? While"
"unequal exchange, external debt and the transfer of resources"
"from developing to developed countries - to mention but a"
"few examples - still persist, will there truly be peace? While"
"protectionist and discriminatory practices in international"
"trade prevail, and the terms of trade of developing countries"
"continue to deteriorate, will we honestly be able to achieve"
"justice?"
"Only through effective cooperation, radically"
"restructuring present international economic relations, would"
"poor nations be allowed to develop and to grow. The"
"initiatives adopted by the Organization by consensus are"
"countless yet we continue to be ignored by the most"
"powerful countries."
"The new international economic order, three"
"international development strategies, four United Nations"
"development decades, at least four special sessions of the"
"General Assembly, a number of conferences on population,"
"environment, habitat, and even the Rio de Janeiro"
"Conference itself exemplify hopes placed by peoples the"
"world over in the United Nations, but without tangible"
"results. The selfishness and lack of political will faced by"
"the poor of this Earth, the children of colonialism, racism,"
"plundering and foreign intervention, are truly disappointing."
"10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session"
"On the other hand, neo-liberal doctrines are now"
"rampant in the assistance programmes of the Organization,"
"proclaiming only the virtues of the market and of private"
"enterprise. Defending only these options means separating"
"populations of developing countries from the real production"
"of wealth. This accentuates the inequalities, attacks true"
"democracy, social development and the right of human"
"beings to achieve a productive and dignified life."
"We the countries of the South are no more than"
"statistics to the North. Meticulous studies are carried out to"
"determine that we will be born in greater numbers, that more"
"of us will fall to disease and that more of us will die."
"The quality of life of the generations that have been"
"born and have died while I speak would demand that those"
"bulky files where tragedies are noted in detail, would also"
"have the power to feed and heal the needy. Simply knowing"
"that we are dying in the countries of the South on this planet"
"will not prevent us from being buried."
"The surviving third world has once again placed its"
"hopes in the preparation of an agenda for development and"
"is awaiting with interest the Secretary-Generals report on"
"the subject. A new frustration would be a luxury for which"
"we would never be forgiven by this suffering humanity."
"The World Summit for Social Development to be held"
"in 1995 will also provide us with a new opportunity to place"
"human beings at the centre of the United Nations efforts, and"
"to give this subject the priority it deserves in the work of the"
"United Nations."
"The world we live in is condemned to a gradual"
"destruction that can only be stopped by our collective"
"wisdom. The right to life, the most basic of human rights,"
"is constantly threatened by the progressive deterioration of"
"the ozone layer, by the pollution of the environment and its"
"underground and surface waters, by the exhaustion of arable"
"land and by the constant increase in the legions of the"
"undernourished and underemployed. This dehumanizing"
"cruelty is the result of what is mistakenly called"
"contemporary industrial civilization. Together with these"
"lacerating realities, humanity is facing other challenges"
"which, though different, are no less complex."
"Recently, the World Conference on Human Rights"
"concluded by reaffirming the universality, interdependence"
"and indivisibility of those rights. That Conference rightly"
"reiterated that the issue must be dealt with in an objective,"
"impartial and non-selective manner."
"Attempts are made to say that the majority of violations"
"of human rights originate in the impoverished countries of"
"the South, while an overwhelming majority of their accusers"
"come from the affluent countries of the North. It seems that"
"those who claim to be the resolute defenders of certain"
"individual freedoms, also include among those freedoms, and"
"with equal ease, the violence that increasing neo-fascist and"
"racist currents are unleashing in their own societies."
"Has that North not been the source, and now more than"
"ever, of discrimination against migrant workers, against the"
"increasingly dispossessed strata of society and against"
"national minorities?"
"Who are the main beneficiaries of the trade in human"
"organs? Where are the deviant practices of pornography and"
"child prostitution, of drug addiction and the sale of minors,"
"most common? Are these by chance the individual freedoms"
"they defend with such zeal? Why are they not equally"
"intransigent in defence of the right to eat, to work, to learn,"
"to live a healthy life, to not suffer discrimination by reason"
"of sex or race, in other words the most basic rights of a"
"human being?"
"We all recognize the responsibility of the United"
"Nations in the field of the promotion of human rights and"
"fundamental freedoms in accordance with the United Nations"
"Charter. There are United Nations bodies that can"
"adequately carry out this responsibility if attempts are not"
"made to assign them functions with which they are"
"incompatible, if they are allowed to work objectively and"
"without political conditions, and if they are based on"
"cooperation and not imposition. This role must not and"
"cannot be distorted. Thus, the idea of creating a high"
"commissioner for human rights should be considered with all"
"necessary care and without undue haste, which we could in"
"the future regret."
"In a similar context, those who reap benefits from the"
"existing international order are introducing into it their own"
"ideology. They are trying to impose those norms of"
"political, economic and social organization most likely to"
"preserve that order and irrationally defend their ideas"
"regarding the links between democracy, human rights and"
"the market economy, a new trilogy that masks the sufferings"
"of millions of persons."
"It is necessary firmly to reject any and all attempts to"
"decide unilaterally on these issues of vital interest to all"
"peoples, and avoid their becoming new sources of conflict,"
"new obstacles to international cooperation and the unifying"
"role that humanity today expects of the United Nations."
"Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993 11"
"In order to fulfil the purposes enshrined in the United"
"Nations Charter and to allow the Organization to contribute"
"to ensuring peace, cooperation and development, it is urgent"
"to democratize the United Nations."
"This would facilitate the finding of solutions to the"
"malformations with which the United Nations was born and"
"with which it developed, and its transformation into an"
"Organization devoted to truly strengthening cooperation"
"among peoples. It is not acceptable that at the dawn of the"
"twenty-first century, the United Nations continues to respond"
"to the interests of a handful of Powers."
"The United Nations has not been and is not democratic."
"A veto privilege linked with the might of States is"
"inadmissible, above all if the Security Council can become"
"a docile instrument in the hands of a few Powers, a risk"
"which is present now more than ever before. There is"
"nothing more insecure in this world, and I say this in all"
"sincerity, than the Security Council."
"The full democratization of the Security Council would"
"require, among other measures, that all its members be"
"subject to periodic democratic elections, as is now the case"
"with non-permanent members. It would also require the"
"elimination of the veto privilege and the establishment of a"
"single category of members, which would be consistent with"
"the principle of the sovereign equality of States that must"
"become, once and for all, the cornerstone of the activities of"
"the Organization."
"We are, nevertheless, conscious of the obstacles that at"
"present prevent us from achieving that objective, and we"
"consider it not only feasible, but indeed indispensable, to"
"progress in that direction."
"The number of peoples present in this Hall has almost"
"quadrupled since 1945. It is therefore necessary to institute"
"a new order in the United Nations."
"Cuba favours an increase in the membership of the"
"Council to reach a proportion, with respect to the total"
"membership of the United Nations, that is as close as"
"possible to that existing in 1945, and favours also a tripling"
"of the number of permanent members so that Latin America,"
"the Caribbean, Africa and Asia would have more than two"
"seats in that category, as is now the case for Europe."
"Suffice it to say that more than 3,700 million inhabitants of"
"those continents, that is, two thirds of humankind, do not"
"enjoy that privilege."
"It is also essential for the principle of equitable"
"geographical distribution to be ever present in the Security"
"Council, and not only among the non-permanent members"
"but among the totality of its membership. By so doing, we"
"would be advancing one step farther towards democratization"
"of the Councils membership."
"It is also indispensable to modify the operational"
"mechanisms of the Council and eliminate the practice of"
"so-called informal consultations, thereby increasing"
"transparency in the work of the Council. This is a need that"
"the Secretary-General recognizes in his latest report on the"
"work of the Organization. By the same token, it is not"
"permissible for the Council to go beyond its mandate and"
"interfere in fields that are not within its purview."
"The adoption of measures to ensure greater participation"
"by the General Assembly on issues to do with the"
"maintenance and strengthening of international peace and"
"security, as a means for achieving the necessary balance"
"between the Assembly and the Security Council, cannot be"
"postponed. We cannot disregard the fact that, under the"
"Charter, the General Assembly is the only truly universal"
"body in the United Nations and that this gives it special"
"responsibilities. The Security Council acts on behalf of all"
"the Member States represented in this Hall and is"
"accountable to them. This accountability should therefore be"
"implemented through substantive and analytical reports from"
"the Council to the General Assembly that would allow the"
"Assembly not only to systematically consider and assess the"
"Councils activities, but also to formulate necessary"
"recommendations."
"There is undoubtedly a general will to revitalize the"
"Organization, but this objective should be achieved through"
"the fullest and most transparent consultations, guided, above"
"all, by the decisions taken by Member States."
"Certain recent initiatives that, without any consultation"
"or mandate whatsoever, attempt to reinvent the priorities of"
"this Organization are cause for concern. There are even"
"proposals that seem to consider the United Nations as a"
"supranational body with a Secretariat acting as a universal"
"government, and implementing actions that not only lack an"
"appropriate legislative basis, but also confer on it"
"prerogatives that are far removed from its legitimate nature."
"We call the Assemblys attention to the dangers involved in"
"these attempts because, if their acceptance is forced through,"
"they would cause serious conflict that could endanger the"
"very integrity of the Organization."
"12 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session"
"Attention should also be called to the"
"implementation of certain new ideas and mechanisms in the"
"United Nations. Even if the resolutions regarding the report"
"entitled \"An Agenda for Peace\" were adopted unanimously"
"in this Hall, their implementation is not free of dangers that"
"could jeopardize the most sacred principles of the United"
"Nations. Nothing in those texts can justify violations of the"
"sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of States"
"or interference in their internal affairs."
"The excessive multiplication in the number of"
"peace-keeping operations and related procedures is also"
"cause for increasing concern. The proliferation in this type"
"of operation is no indication that the United Nations is"
"functioning better today than in the past; quite the contrary."
"In any case, it is a symptom of the grave dangers that"
"threaten world peace and stability."
"The resulting financial burden that is falling on the"
"shoulders of Member States is reaching unsustainable"
"proportions. Hence, we must prevent this increase from"
"becoming even more onerous for Member States, and in"
"particular for those of the third world."
"In the last decade of the millennium, our world"
"nevertheless does show some rays of light. One of these is"
"that shed by the Ibero-American Summits, the most recent"
"of which was recently held in the Brazilian city of"
"Salvador da Bahia. I mention this as a valid example of"
"fraternal discussion, in which, without anything being"
"imposed by any party, issues of common interest were"
"defined and coordinated."
"Recently also, the world learned of the signing of the"
"Declaration that, as a preliminary measure, recognizes"
"Palestinian autonomy over part of the occupied territories."
"We hope that this development constitutes an effective step"
"towards the restoration of the legitimate right of the"
"Palestinian people to have their own State, in their own"
"national territory, and towards the definitive withdrawal by"
"Israel from the other occupied Arab territories, including"
"Jerusalem. This would be an important contribution to a"
"definitive solution to the Middle East conflict and to the"
"establishment of a just and lasting peace in that troubled"
"region."
"Only a few days ago, in the Special Committee against"
"Apartheid, my delegation had the honour of hearing"
"Nelson Mandela. We are encouraged by his confidence in"
"the future, and we hope that the process of dialogue now"
"under way will be conducive to the establishment of a"
"united, democratic and non-racial South Africa. We are"
"ready to contribute, with our modest efforts, towards that"
"end."
"In my country, a genuine revolution succeeded. Since"
"the outset, it has faced hostility from its neighbour but,"
"against all odds, it has been able to carry out, in solidarity,"
"its humane task. We have continued our endeavour even"
"now that international circumstances have radically changed."
"Cuba is inserting itself into the world economy and is"
"opening up to foreign investment, but without the loss of any"
"of its principles. In order to continue to safeguard the"
"development of our people, we are also making profound"
"changes based on the concept of preserving our"
"independence and the gains we have already achieved. We"
"are indeed facing serious problems as a result of an inhuman"
"blockade, but we nevertheless continue to hold a prominent"
"place in the fields of health, education and social security,"
"which are guaranteed for all even in the midst of all our"
"difficulties. The results of these efforts have been"
"recognized this year by the United Nations and by the"
"United Nations Childrens Fund."
"Attempts are being made to crush this dream. The"
"General Assembly, at its last session, adopted resolution"
"47/19, regarding the necessity of ending the economic,"
"commercial and financial embargo imposed by the United"
"States of America against Cuba. The resolution was"
"welcomed by international public opinion. Since then, there"
"has been an impressive rise in world-wide solidarity towards"
"our country, from every part of the world, from the most"
"diverse sectors and creeds, even in those wide swaths of the"
"population of the aggressor country that reject the measures"
"taken by their own Government. Sympathy has increased"
"for a people that for more than three decades has managed"
"to resist a ferocious siege by a huge, neighbouring Power,"
"with admirable gallantry in the midst of unimaginable"
"deprivation. Nevertheless, in open defiance of the decision"
"taken by the General Assembly and in defiance of world"
"opinion, the blockade has been reinforced during the last few"
"months by means of regulations cruelly implementing to the"
"utmost the same laws rejected by this forum less than a year"
"ago."
"The extra-territorial nature of the blockade has"
"increased, and the pressures are on the rise. Actions have"
"multiplied to impede or affect the links with Cuba of private"
"and public economic entities in third countries. They aspire"
"to defeat by hunger and disease the exemplary nation which"
"they have not been able to vanquish by force or by siren"
"songs."
"Forty-eighth session - 4 October 1993 13"
"It must be difficult for the illustrious representatives of"
"that great northern nation still to sustain today the thesis that"
"their actions constitute a bilateral embargo, in the face of the"
"irrefutable evidence that in fact those actions constitute a"
"blockade."
"We have provided the Assembly with irrefutable"
"evidence of their ambition not only to maintain but also to"
"strengthen the blockade, to economically strangle my"
"homeland, to undermine the sovereignty of third States and"
"to violate the freedom of trade and navigation, to the"
"detriment of the most fundamental principles of international"
"law."
"But there is more: if this is a case of bilateral relations,"
"then there are two blockaded peoples, that of Cuba and that"
"of the United States. North Americans are denied an"
"economic opportunity that would benefit them; they are"
"denied access to the scientific advances that already"
"guarantee the prevention and cure of diseases such as"
"meningitis, retinitis pigmentosa, hepatitis B and vitiligo,"
"among other achievements of our science. The right to"
"travel freely to any place, which their Constitution confers"
"on all citizens, is also infringed upon."
"The blockades effect on my people is even more"
"inhuman. We are prevented from purchasing drugs essential"
"for health; our ability to acquire resources to meet the needs"
"for our material and social well-being is curtailed; our peace"
"and daily life is threatened. The generation to which I"
"belong was born and grew up under the blockades siege."
"To live in a sovereign and steadfast country is a crime for"
"which two million children may have to pay with their lives."
"We affirm before the peoples of the world that there"
"will be no possible absolution for those who commit or"
"support this genocide, because \"to condone a crime is"
"tantamount to committing it\". If against all logic our right"
"were to be denied, if aggressive forces were to prevail over"
"reason, Cubans will nevertheless always maintain their"
"unshakeable faith in victory. We love life, and life is"
"freedom, independence, sovereignty. We demand that the"
"path we have chosen be respected. It is not our desire to be"
"a model for anyone, but we will never accept either"
"imposition or force."
"I know that my words will be understood in different"
"ways, but I have said what our conscience as free human"
"beings dictates. My words may be applauded as a matter of"
"solidarity, courtesy or obligation, but I know that there are"
"many who wish us to be successful, for that is what they"
"hope for themselves."
"To you, Mr. President, I am thankful for having"
"allowed me to express the feelings of a worthy people."
"As we who are gathered here deliver our statements, a small and impoverished Caribbean nation is being subjected to military occupation. The inconceivable deal struck with the generals responsible for the coup d'etat - yesterday threatened as murderers, but today turned into complacent partners - ignores the decisions of the international community and the will of the Haitian people. The fundamental principles of the United Nations Charter - indeed, the authority of the Security Council and of the United Nations itself - are among the victims of this unfortunate event, as they have been totally ignored in actions carried out allegedly on their behalf."
"History is repeating itself. It was the guns of invaders and the boots of foreign occupants that installed in Haiti the various dictatorships of this century and trained and supported those who are still perpetrating tyranny on their people. How, then, can we trust them to promote democracy in the future?"
"Cuba has always supported and promoted efforts to restore the constitutional order in Haiti with the unconditional and unrestricted return of President Aristide and has rejected the attempts to resort to foreign intervention as a means of resolving the conflict. At the appropriate time, Cuba denounced the Security Council's decision to go along with the violation of the Charter by some of its members and to join in their interventionist designs. Now that we are faced with a fait accompli, we can do nothing except reiterate our Government's position: those who are today applauding the invasion could become tomorrow's victims."
"It is clear that an essential component of this tragedy is the manipulation to which the United Nations - an organization born under the pretext of the sovereign equality of its members - has been subjected."
"Cuba reiterates its firm rejection of the attempts to adopt unilateral decisions on issues of vital importance to all peoples and of the abuse of the anachronistic privilege of the veto, granted by the Charter to a group of States with permanent membership of the Security Council."
"It is urgent to ensure that democracy prevails in international relations and in the United Nations. We must ensure respect for the Charter and put an end to its systematic violation by the most powerful."
"On this the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations it is imperative that the Organization be democratized without any delay. The time has come for this institution to stop catering to the interests of a handful of big Powers."
"Mr. Mishra (India), Vice-President, took the Chair."
"The President of the Assembly, a distinguished son of the African continent whose election to the presidency honours us all, is well aware that Somalia is still fresh in our minds. The tragedy of hunger and starvation in that sisterly nation has continued, even if television newsreels no longer show the horrible pictures that served as a prelude to the so-called humanitarian invasion sponsored by this Organization."
"In spite of such invasions, Haiti and Somalia will continue to be poor countries. The evils of the third world are not resolved through military occupations, which are merely used to serve selfish interests."
"In both cases, which have already become dangerous precedents, the Security Council acted under pressure from a big Power, which monopolized the implementation of these actions and even prevented the majority of Member States from voicing their views. In both cases, under the alleged authority of the Security Council, neutrality and impartiality, essential principles of that body, were violated."
"These are examples of the Security Council's illegitimate foray into areas beyond its mandate: intervention based on vague arguments of humanitarian protection, or the authorizing of one or several States to take unilateral punitive actions, under Chapter VII of the Charter, in operations of invasion, occupation and intervention."
"In fact, what is at stake is the sovereignty, self- determination and political independence of countless countries, mainly but not only of the third world."
"Attempts are being made, at the expense of the suffering of a number of peoples, and without their consent, to openly give carte blanche and a predominant role to the Security Council regarding issues alien to its mandate and on which this Organization has no prerogative whatsoever."
"There is no doubt that the specific functioning of the Security Council deserves careful consideration, and that this body must become democratic, with an enlarged membership more representative of the countries of the third world. Poor and small countries are rightly entitled to be present on the Council and to demand that it follow equitable and transparent procedures in its activities. There should be permanent members from Latin America, Africa, and the developing countries in Asia. Membership should not be the preserve of large economic Powers associated with the West."
"The Security Council cannot arrogate to itself powers that have not been invested in it, nor overstep the Organization that created it and to which it is accountable. The General Assembly must assert its control over the actions of the Security Council and demand that it respect the Charter."
"There should also be greater response to the interests of the developing world in other areas of the Organization. The crucial problems of its peoples are not and cannot be resolved with invasions nor with allegedly humanitarian military operations. Nor can they be resolved with emergency assistance programmes whose only aim is to mitigate the most alarming consequences of structural underdevelopment."
"If the international community and the United Nations, its most representative organization, do not adopt the timely measures and programmes required to develop the third world, we will be using this forum to debate the causes and consequences of the arrival of underdevelopment in the first world."
"The growing concerns of industrialized countries over immigration issues is quite illustrative, as confirmed by the debates undertaken in the recently concluded International Conference on Population and Development."
"It is clear that concepts regarding cooperation imposed from the North are prevailing, with flashy titles but devoid of any practical meaning for the solution of the problems brought about by poverty, and tending to mutilate the right to development for which peoples of the world are clamouring. Although concepts such as sustainable development, human development or sustainable human development may contain defensible ideals from a theoretical point of view, they are actually being used to corrode the commitments achieved during long years of efforts aimed at facilitating international cooperation for development on a just and democratic basis."
"Unacceptable conditions and interference in the domestic policy of States are thus being imposed, and attempts are being made to fix strategic priorities for development in countries that, though poor, are sovereign and independent. Hence, the right to development proclaimed by this Organization is being subordinated to the interests of the large transnational economic powers, which are actually continuing to dictate the rules and practices of international economic relations."
"The United Nations agenda for development must not be allowed to replace the International Strategy for Development and other important instruments that were the result of the efforts of the developing countries to defend their interests and on which they exhibited great flexibility and the ability to compromise."
"Nor should the United Nations continue to be allowed to be used for the imposition of neo-liberal economic models, bringing backwardness and misery to millions of persons in exchange for short-term economic growth benefiting only the elitist minorities in third world countries and their partners in the affluent North."
"The fundamental approach, in Cuba's view, should be focused on comprehensive economic growth based on justice and equity to meet pressing social needs. International economic relations must be restructured on the basis of effective, just, equitable and non-discriminatory cooperation with the countries of the South."
"Poverty is not a predestined fate, let alone a human right, no matter how hard the rich countries try to prove otherwise. As long as universal respect for human rights continues to be manipulated by a handful of rich nations, the have-nots of the South will continue to play the role of the accused, with the affluent societies in the North playing the parts of judge and jury."
"All attempts to impose as universal dogmas systems of government designed by the privileged nations of the first world, regardless of the different social, economic, historical and cultural realities of the third world, are unacceptable and doomed to failure."
"We must also put an end to hypocrisy."
"It would be unforgivable for us to remain indifferent to the tragedy of humankind while wasting our efforts on elitist concerns. War, xenophobia, neo-fascism and racism are proliferating in our midst; the degradation of women and children is increasing; unemployment is on the rise; the environment is deteriorating and the culture of entire populations and nationalities is being crushed. Millions of human beings are afflicted by poverty and starvation; they are denied access to basic medical care and education. Yet the United Nations has done very little indeed to deal with these issues as what they really are: clear violations of human rights."
"Countries that are struggling, on the basis of equity and justice, to attain their development are really working in favour of the human rights of their peoples; countries that prevent us from developing are violating the human rights of our populations."
"The Association of Caribbean States was recently established as a means of responding to the globalization of the international economy and of strengthening cooperation among the States, countries and territories of our region. We, the peoples of the Caribbean, are conscious of the fact that only by closely reconciling our interests can we become competitive markets. That new organization, brought into being by urgent needs, contributes, together with the Ibero-American Summits, to promoting the indispensable economic integration and joint analysis of common strategies in an environment that links us through history and culture."
"As an integral part of that community of Latin American and Caribbean nations, Cuba has decided to sign, at the appropriate moment, the Tlatelolco Treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in our region."
"It is well-known that warships armed with nuclear weapons are anchored both in the portion of our territory illegally occupied by the United States and in neighbouring Puerto Rico. Without renouncing our demand for their withdrawal, we subscribe to the noble aims of Tlatelolco. We do so as testimony to our will to join with the rest of Latin America and the Caribbean, as a gesture towards our brothers in the region, and out of a desire to broaden our mechanisms for reconciliation and dialogue."
"At the Ibero-American Summits, held since 1991, Latin peoples south of the Rio Bravo have for the first time met exclusively among themselves to discuss issues of common interest. Meanwhile, another Summit has been convened in, of all places, Miami. All the Governments in America except the one I represent have been invited. It is said that three main issues will be discussed: free trade, collective security and the promotion of programmes to alleviate extreme poverty."
"We will have to determine which of the two Americas stands to reap the greater benefit from the Miami Summit. If positive results for Latin Americans were to emerge from the meeting, Cuba would sincerely welcome its convening, even if we were not present. It could become an excellent opportunity to demand of our neighbour to the North fair treatment in trade and financial relations, as well as in the transfer of technology, and to request the Host Country to fulfil its obligations in the field of international cooperation. It remains to be seen how a Government that has cancelled its meagre aid programmes to the region could raise the necessary funds to"
"Let me now say a few words regarding my homeland. On two consecutive occasions this forum, by an overwhelming majority, has demanded the elimination of the economic, trade and financial blockade imposed upon my country by the Government of the United States. In both cases the United States has replied with silence."
"It is not, as some would have it, a matter of victory for the blockaded nation and defeat for the blockading nation. Our friends or the Governments that fully support our policies were not the only ones that voted to put an end to this irrational siege. The simple fact is that the great majority of the world is witnessing an action that has no legal justification, moral virtue or ethical principle - an action that violates not only Cuba's sovereignty but also the most basic precepts of international coexistence. It is a policy rejected by all countries that espouse the rule of law and mutual respect in relations between States."
"In this complex and convulsed world that is supposedly pluralistic, free and democratic, the United States is trying to deny my country, Cuba, its rightful place as a sovereign nation. It is as if two centuries of relations between the two countries meant nothing. What is worse, it is as if the cold war had frozen forever on our tiny spit of land and sun, merely because we had committed the \"sin\" of wishing to be free and truly independent a scarce 90 miles from the most powerful country on the planet."
"My homeland has been subjected to hardships probably greater than those suffered by any other country. With the collapse of socialism in Europe, our markets and our sources of raw materials and financing disappeared overnight. The process of overcoming domestic difficulties and reforming the economic and administrative structures conceived at a certain stage of our socialist project was also disrupted by the reinforcement of the policy of isolation and strangulation that our people had already been stoically facing for years."
"In the midst of this dangerous combination of elements; despite forecasts, since 1989, of a Cuban collapse, my country has not collapsed, nor will it collapse. We have survived all kinds of strategies, from those promoting terrorist and subversive actions from abroad to those of exerting pressure in different directions in order to reinforce the blockade, which, as I said, this Assembly has rejected for two consecutive years."
"This does not mean that the plight of my people is no longer harsh and complex. In recognition of the proven patriotism and national dignity of the Cuban people, this world forum should issue an unequivocal appeal for justice and reject once and for all the cruel hostility to which Cuba has been so long subjected."
"The unequal struggle forced upon us for so many years has not mitigated our love of peace. Cuba still aspires to negotiated solutions to its disputes with any country, provided that those solutions are based on sovereign equality and mutual respect. This Organization is well aware of that. We are a mature and flexible people: civilized and faithful to agreements based on equality and sovereignty."
"The series of bilateral meetings recently held in New York led to partial solutions to the age-old dispute between"
"Cuba and the United States. The spirit of seriousness and respect that prevailed in those negotiations and the will on the part of both sides to find solutions made it possible to conclude a mutually satisfactory agreement that, if fully implemented, will lay the foundation for the normalization of migratory relations between the two countries."
"We desire peace with all our neighbours: peace with dignity. Our sovereignty, our independence and the socialism that we freely chose will never be bargaining chips at any negotiating table, nor will we ever demand concessions of such a nature from any country."
"We are increasingly opening ourselves to the world, without demanding or acceding to conditions. A great Power, however, is blockading us - and is blockading its own people and the sons and daughters of my people who live on its territory, preventing them from assisting and rejoining their families. Such cruelty has no parallel in the history of wholesale violations of human rights."
"We do not beg, for our national hero, Jose Marti, the centennial of whose death in our struggle for true independence will come next year, taught us that mankind can never be ruled by cowardice and indifference. And, as he instructed,"
"\"We ask the world, certain of its reply, whether the sacrifice of a generous people that is immolating itself in its efforts to open up to the world will meet indifference or hard-heartedness from mankind, for whose sake it is acting.\""
"There is nothing new in the newspapers these"
"days: Ethnic tensions growing in various parts of the"
"world; Violence claims a three-year-old victim;"
"Concerns increase over new outbreaks of dengue fever;"
"Fighting continues in the Baltic; Young man commits"
"suicide after killing his parents, his brother and eight"
"other people; and Children of the third world run the"
"risk of contracting the diseases of the Western world. Is"
"this peace? Is this the new world? Is this the new order"
"to which we committed ourselves 50 years ago? Half a"
"century after the end of that devastating world war are"
"nations really united?"
"Until a short while ago many of us believed that we"
"had finally distanced ourselves from the danger of world"
"war and that some long-standing confrontations were"
"beginning to be resolved through dialogue and"
"negotiation. However, the threats of a world cataclysm"
"have grown over decades of regional and local conflicts,"
"stirred up by a wide range of motives involving"
"24"
NA
NA
"geopolitical, economic and trading disputes as well as"
"ethnic and religious conflicts."
"Europe, the veteran of two world wars, which thought"
"it was protected by a number of post-war agreements, is"
"now the arena for a number of confrontations in all corners"
"of that continent. In the Balkans, concentration camps,"
"which we believed had died with Hitler, have once again"
"made an appearance."
"Terrorism, originally fomented by certain powerful"
"developed countries, has now turned against those very"
"countries with a lash like the tail of the serpent and now, in"
"order to combat that scourge, they are spending the same"
"millions they had invested earlier in perpetrating it."
"Drug trafficking is also terrorizing the major cities, but"
"what promotes that scourge is not the cultivation of certain"
"types of vegetation in the underdeveloped world, but"
"tolerance of drug consumption and covert protection for its"
"production and trade in order to make a profit in those very"
"cities."
"Extremism, xenophobia, racism and discrimination on"
"the basis of national origin, creed or gender are"
"proliferating once again, together with the spectre of"
"fascism, which seems to have arisen from the tomb."
"Globalization, an all-inclusive term conceived in the"
"interests of the major transnational corporations, is now"
"devouring national entities, sovereignty and independence"
"beyond any limit or reason, bringing in its wake a global"
"invasion of destitution, population growth, mass migration"
"and environmental degradation, which cannot be avoided by"
"even the most powerful of this world."
"At the same time, ideological differences, the"
"imposition of measures, isolation and selfish actions of all"
"kinds continue to torpedo our new efforts to integrate into"
"associations, such as the Association of South-East Asian"
"Nations (ASEAN) and the recently established Association"
"of Caribbean States (ACS)."
"An exclusive kind of panamericanism in this"
"hemisphere is sabotaging the aspirations of the community"
"of Ibero-American and Caribbean nations to strengthen their"
"forums of regional concerted actions and to seek consensus"
"to meet their common needs. The country that has arrogated"
"to itself supreme leadership in this area as a manifest"
"destiny has, as it did two centuries ago, been conspiring to"
"abort any regional or international association of peoples"
"that does not fit in with its narrow national interests."
"Asia and Africa, which achieved decolonization, are"
"now laboratories in which societies with age-old cultures"
"and a strong tribal heritage are being afflicted with new"
"liberal and Western models that are totally alien to their"
"national characteristics."
"Fifty years on, despite all its efforts, the United"
"Nations has not been able to eliminate hunger, poverty,"
"the millions of children dying of diseases that are curable"
"and entire peoples who are longing for a simple glass of"
"drinking water."
"The virtual reality in which we are told we live"
"today cannot conceal the nuclear weapons which, as has"
"been asserted, may destroy the planet three times over, as"
"if once were not enough. Nor will the illusion of the"
"future created in the opulent cities so rich in show-"
"windows and neon lights save the world from the waste"
"that is being emptied into the oceans, the contamination"
"of the atmosphere, and the destruction of ecosystems and"
"species, including the human race."
"Such news is rarely seen on television in the"
"civilized countries where we are constantly told about"
"marvellous detergents; but how can one cleanse the world"
"of the horrors of war and destitution with such"
"detergents?"
"Light and shadow, but above all more shadow than"
"light, seems to be the mood of this General Assembly on"
"the eve of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations."
"In preparing itself, Cuba has noted with concern the often"
"graceless and vulgar way in which highly developed"
"countries are trying to take advantage of this opportunity"
"to define new economic, legal and political bases for the"
"world. These bases run counter to the true objectives of"
"peace, development, equality and justice, as well as of the"
"preservation and needed restoration of the cardinal"
"principles of the Charter."
"In the complex debates of the last few months many"
"tributes have been paid to the argument of limited"
"sovereignty, humanitarian intervention and preventive"
"diplomacy, all set forth in An Agenda for Peace in the"
"implementation of which the United Nations is wasting"
"two thirds of its budget."
"Those discussions have not been free from brushes"
"with fashionable neo-liberal ideas that equate development"
"with assistance and set up chains of conditionalities"
"disguised as the same good intentions with which the road"
"to hell is paved."
"25"
NA
NA
"From the bipolar world of the East-West conflict we"
"have moved to the unipolarism of the most powerful, and"
"only the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and the"
"Group of 77 have managed to survive, although some have"
"tried to do away with them, silence them or reeducate them,"
"as if the problems of the third world were dependent solely"
"on disputes between the great Powers and their post-war"
"allies."
"To the calls by the vast majority of the world for the"
"preservation of sovereign equality, territorial integrity and"
"non-interference in the internal affairs of States, which are"
"the bases of international law, we have been given answers"
"that seek to destroy those principles for the benefit of a"
"few. Whenever reason raises its head, an attempt is made"
"to trample on the third worlds right to development by"
"imposing mechanisms in which the factor of domination is"
"inherent, something this Organization was established"
"precisely to combat."
"All the efforts and time we have spent here to"
"establish a new, more just and more equitable economic"
"order have been doomed to failure by the intransigence of"
"the rich, which has made the gap between rich and poor a"
"gulf that is ever-more unspannable."
"A great wave of privatization has done away with"
"national structures and is jeopardizing the important but"
"fragile social achievements of mankind in its development."
"Streets, parks, cities and even prisons are being"
"privatized, and under this influence it would appear that we"
"are now approaching the privatization of law and of world"
"power, and the United Nations itself is unable to escape"
"from this, for some believe that the bulk of Member States"
"have little or nothing to say in deciding their own destinies."
"Let us agree on this: the world has changed. We can"
"repeat it. It is true. But how has it changed?"
"Notwithstanding the impressive achievements of the"
"human race we are forced to live at the same time with"
"unspeakable suffering that mocks all material and spiritual"
"progress in which we might feel some pride as we approach"
"the new century."
"The civilizatory crisis began in the richest and most"
"powerful part of the planet and is now spreading to"
"international agencies and into this lofty arena."
"The countries of the South cannot desire or continue"
"to support the notion that the North should constantly"
"impose conditions upon it. The countries of the North"
"must listen to our views as well as alter their own"
"patterns of development."
"Although it is fashionable to include the issue of"
"human development in the agendas of international"
"discussions, it has been relegated to second place by post-"
"modern technocracies. There are those who celebrate the"
"fall of the Berlin Wall and the breakdown of the"
"European socialist world without realizing that no new"
"world has yet been constructed to replace them and that,"
"on the contrary, many other new walls are growing up"
"around us."
"From the centres of world power refined and subtle"
"forms of a new colonization are being imposed as part of"
"national policies and national-security strategies  in"
"other words, of extraterritorial domination."
"Cuba knows this by heart. The ridiculous charitable"
"gestures, the crumbs fallen from the table, the alms, all go"
"hand in hand with the cultural and ideological invasion"
"that corrodes peoples from within and neutralizes them as"
"actors on historys stage."
"The new ark of the post-modern saviours is"
"predestined to divide humanity into the auto-elect and the"
"excluded. Solidarity, the symbol of love among human"
"beings and the essential attribute of mankinds salvation"
"in every age, is now an endangered species."
"Like the model the leadership is seeking to erect on"
"the basis of brutal selfishness, the third world seems"
"condemned to become bogged down in debates on"
"confrontation and cooperation and to abandon the best of"
"the human spirit, which is precisely this solidarity."
"And this very Organization which combated"
"colonialism and apartheid with such solidarity has also"
"been changed into a kind of supranational mechanism far"
"removed from its intergovernmental design."
"Is there solidarity in the secret contacts and covert"
"understandings that precede the decisions taken by the"
"Organization, which is manipulated in the interests of"
"certain Powers?"
"Can we regard as solidarity the further invasions to"
"eradicate famine, safeguard peace, restore democracy and"
"support so-called good governments?"
"26"
NA
NA
"Can there be solidarity in a Security Council without"
"transparency and anti-democratic in its workings, which no"
"longer fulfils the principles of the Charter or exceeds them"
"and refuses to abolish the veto power and renounce"
"permanent membership?"
"What kind of solidarity do we mean when that body,"
"the Security Council, resists even the alternative of sharing"
"its obsolete power fairly with other nations that better"
"represent this world?"
"In international law we must in no way accept as valid"
"the life-style of those who proclaim as a national"
"philosophy that they have no friends or interests  unless"
"we wish to bring on mass suicide for the planet."
"And if we are to avoid suicide, we must definitively"
"support the conclusion of treaties that will completely ban"
"atomic weapons, their technological monopoly and peaceful"
"and simulated explosions and declare a total moratorium on"
"testing until the practice is completely banned. Such treaties"
"must be acceded to by all nuclear Powers without any"
"exception."
"For the third consecutive year I have come here"
"mandated by Cuba to address this Assembly and to"
"denounce what has already been denounced, to condemn"
"what has already been condemned, and to reiterate the call"
"of the overwhelming majority of the community of nations."
"On the very threshold of the twenty-first century the"
"criminal economic, trade and financial blockade which the"
"United States has imposed against my country for 36 years"
"continues. We have survived the attempt to eliminate us,"
"which has been mocked by the tenacious resistance of my"
"people."
"After years of crisis, the Cuban economy experienced"
"a 7 per cent growth in the past year while the budget deficit"
"was reduced by almost half. Inflation, measured by the"
"informal exchange market, was reduced by more than 80"
"per cent, and at the end of the first half of 1995 the"
"economy had grown by 2 per cent."
"Significant economic measures made those results"
"possible, and yet the traditional attention our Government"
"gives to education, health, employment and social security"
"has never diminished."
"All this has been possible because since 1959 we have"
"zealously and resolutely defended the commitment made to"
"the fathers of our nation to keep it free and sovereign, 90"
"miles distant from that great Power that has always"
"regarded us as part of its backyard, as some sort of annex"
"to its own territory."
"It has been possible because in this world obsessed"
"to its very soul with buying and selling  while of"
"course deriving profit from the process  we have"
"maintained and demonstrated that one can live with an"
"ethics based on principles, on national unity, on justice,"
"on respect for human dignity, equity, morality and loyalty,"
"and no one  absolutely no one  has the right to"
"question this."
"It has also been possible because we have kept faith"
"with the Charter that we signed 50 years ago, with its"
"commitment to respect and require respect for our"
"sovereignty, our national independence and our self-"
"determination, while not allowing interference of any kind"
"in our internal affairs."
"There is more. These results have been possible"
"because, free from the commitments of the past, and with"
"the experience of having depended economically on other"
"countries, we have with great sacrifice undertaken the"
"task of building our economic independence."
"It would be ungrateful of me if, in speaking of the"
"incredible achievements of the Cuban people, I made no"
"reference to the millions who have stood by us during"
"these difficult years: the dozens of countries and"
"Governments that did not break off relations with Cuba,"
"those that strengthened their relations and those that found"
"the courage to enter into such relations for the first time"
"in the face of unspeakable pressure and threats."
"It is precisely now, when trade and foreign"
"investment are beginning to energize the Cuban economy,"
"that a campaign has been launched in the United States"
"Congress to approve a bill that would mock and run"
"counter to the wishes of the majority of nations and harm"
"free trade and all civilized forms of relations between"
"peoples and Governments."
"Certain extremist sectors in this country are trying to"
"delay a lasting solution to the conflict between these two"
"countries for many years and to abort the migration"
"agreements signed by both Governments last year."
"Only two days ago the House of Representatives"
"took the first step towards this crime in approving that"
"bill which, among other absurdities, proposes an"
"27"
NA
NA
"international blockade against Cuba, which is really directed"
"against the whole of humanity."
"This is no surprise to us because, apart from gestures"
"from the many friends that we have in this great nation,"
"those who have directed its destiny over the last 36 years"
"have brought us nothing good. However, we trust that there"
"are still honest people who, even without being friends of"
"the Cuban Government, may have the basic common sense"
"to know which side is in the right."
"There is also time to stay the hands of those in the"
"Senate and the Executive Branch who wish to stab in the"
"back the future of any attempt at a rapprochement between"
"Cuba and the United States and add new tensions to"
"international relations that are already difficult."
"Faced with a world that accepts diversity and"
"differences, that does not turn to us with aggression or"
"isolate or discriminate against us, this North American"
"position is automatically blocked in time and in existence,"
"and is isolated in its attitude towards Cuba in this"
"Assembly."
"My country does not question anybodys right to the"
"type of government they desire. We urge no one to imitate"
"our model. But neither can we accept that anyone should"
"impose a different one on us. We affirm this in the strong"
"belief that the democratic, economic and social justice"
"process initiated in Cuba in 1959 has followed an honest"
"path; it has demonstrated its viability, its strength and its"
"capacity to face the challenges of these times and respond"
"to them."
"We firmly believe in the authenticity and the popular"
"support underpinning our revolution and our socialism "
"a socialism as Cuban as our palm trees. We defend our"
"right to life and to our own voice, because in the world of"
"pluralism that we aspire to, plurality and diversity among"
"nations must be respected."
"In this Assembly there are documents circulating that"
"prove what I say, as well as vulgar threats and attempts at"
"blackmail against those who are exercising such freedoms,"
"not only because they are ethical in taking the right side in"
"a matter of international interest, but because they have"
"links with Havana."
"Diplomacy and politics these days cannot be practised"
"by threatening families that wish to be reunited, or"
"businessmen, members of Congress or politicians who have"
"to resort to bodyguards for their own protection."
"What can we expect the next century to offer us if"
"this trial imposed on Cuba by a world Power succeeds?"
"We need something more than the reiteration of the"
"condemnation of the blockade in this Assembly. Cuba is"
"fully entitled to call for action that would put an end to"
"this madness, because any Member State may be the next"
"victim in the future."
"It is high time now to put an end to a conflict which"
"had its origins more than two centuries ago  before"
"socialism emerged, and long before the East-West conflict"
"and the triumph of the Cuban revolution."
"Cuba has managed to succeed thanks to solidarity."
"In its name, we hope that the issue of human rights may"
"cease to be used as political manoeuvring in a way that"
"stains the honour of many decent countries. Alongside the"
"lying and pathetic chronicles of human rights violations"
"in Cuba, the world must recognize that there has been no"
"lack of love, no lack of sacrifice in the salvation of"
"millions of women and children who, because our trade"
"was blockaded, did not have enough food to eat."
"The often heroic and painful efforts to secure"
"medicine for the sick, insulin for diabetics, aminofilin for"
"asthmatics and pacemakers for those with heart conditions"
"must be recognized and acknowledged, because the"
"providers of those medicines and the experts concerned"
"were warned off, boycotted or proscribed by the Treasury"
"Department of the United States."
"The world must know that the right to life is deeply"
"jeopardized in Cuba, and that my country is living,"
"working, loving and every day renewing its hopes of a"
"better world in spite of that."
"If truth were better valued on the market, the world"
"would correctly identify the most striking victims of the"
"human rights violations in Cuba: the vulgar servants of a"
"foreign Power from which they receive encouragement"
"and resources to conspire against the very land in which"
"they were born to promote the annexationist aspirations of"
"our powerful neighbour."
"Moreover, honest people throughout the world can"
"discern among the members of the Cuban community in"
"this country a growing majority who have begun to"
"defend the sovereignty of Cuba, to claim the rights that"
"have also been denied them and works with all our"
"support and all our respect to normalize relations with"
"their homeland."
"28"
NA
NA
"The world cannot be deceived all the time, least of all"
"the noble and hard-working people of the United States,"
"who daily call out for solidarity with Cuba. Without the"
"blockade, Cuba would more clearly demonstrate its"
"unsuspected reserves of talent and energy and the material"
"and spiritual quality of our lives would be improved. That"
"would enable us to give our modest support much more"
"freely to the cultural and scientific advancement of all"
"mankind and of the United States as well."
"It is incredible that in the so-called land of the free,"
"tourists and businessmen are able to travel and invest freely"
"all around the world except to one destination and in one"
"market, which is increasingly attractive and is located only"
"90 miles from its own shores."
"The people of the United States, whose economy,"
"politics, dignity, laws and human rights have also been"
"profoundly damaged, must prevent this seed sown for more"
"than 30 years from becoming a genuine source of national"
"shame, as was its war against Viet Nam."
"Let it be clearly understood: Cuba desires normal"
"relations with the United States, provided that a natural"
"feeling of good-neighbourliness, respect and equality"
"prevails between the two countries. But Cuba will never"
"give way to threats and will survive at all costs whatever"
"happens, because it is capable of escaping from crises, but"
"cannot shake off the dishonour of living on its knees. It"
"will not do that. Cuba will continue with its forward"
"movement to change and develop. Our economy, although"
"subject to the blockade, will grow and will provide for"
"and meet the most pressing needs of our people. The"
"powerful infrastructure that we have built up over three"
"decades with what some have called the subsidy that"
"Cuba has wasted well befits a people whose high level of"
"education and culture and a stable land of peace and"
"order. All of this is sustained by the broadest popular"
"consultation and consent and a democratic consensus"
"enjoyed by few Governments."
"The changes which Cuba has made and will continue"
"to make in its own way apply not only to our economy,"
"but to our political system, civil society and institutions,"
"in order to make our democracy increasingly genuine and"
"participative. These changes fall squarely within our"
"sovereign prerogative. They have not been made to please"
"anyone outside, especially those who have so altered"
"themselves as to be unrecognizable."
"Day by day, minute by minute, Cuba is striving to"
"improve itself, to adapt and survive in this global jungle,"
"where more than ever before survival of the fittest is the"
"rule. The lion may be able to devour the deer, but he has"
"a hard time swallowing the hedgehog."
"For this reason, the United Nations must also change"
"and become more democratic, to become the genuine"
"vehicle for development and peace which humanity needs"
"if it is to survive. It must become a forum for dialogue"
"and concord where the principle of the sovereign equality"
"of States is the keystone and foundation."
"Many have spoken, and will continue to speak this"
"year, of celebrating the merits and work of the United"
"Nations, which no one can deny. On behalf of my"
"country, I prefer today to commemorate rather than"
"celebrate and to call on this Assembly, 50 years after its"
"founding, to veto irrationality and vote unanimously for"
"the future of mankind."
"A year ago, from this same rostrum, I began my"
"statement by reading some 10 hair-raising news items of"
"the moment from the international press, on bellicose"
"conflicts, violence and death in the cities and deadly"
"epidemics claiming new victims. Intending to do this again"
"today, I found that the situation remains the same, or is"
"perhaps even worse. Unfortunately, the world wasted"
"another 12 months without doing anything to stop such"
"catastrophic events."
"As if it were necessary to illustrate this with specific"
"facts, even as we gathered here we once again witnessed"
"the bloodshed of the heroic Palestinian people. First and"
"foremost, I denounce the new Israeli aggression and the"
"policy of hegemony that defends these acts, and I express"
"support for our Palestinian brothers in their struggle for"
"their legitimate right to finally have an independent state,"
"with Jerusalem its capital."
"Also about a year ago, the Prime Minister of"
"Malaysia, the country of the President of the General"
"Assembly, very rightly stated that the United Nations"
"should support the collective needs of peoples and nations"
"in order to serve humanity as a whole, and that it was"
"therefore necessary to correct the trend of making them an"
"instrument of the wealthy and the powerful. Today it must"
"be recognized that we are meeting again without having"
"removed that danger."
"Hence, in expressing my Governments satisfaction at"
"having President Razali lead us in our work, I cannot but"
"express confidence that his diplomatic professionalism, his"
"personal achievements and his long and proven experience"
"in the work of this Organization will give him strength in"
"leading us in a remarkably difficult and complex session of"
"the General Assembly."
"Far from being more democratic and universal, the"
"Organization in which we come together today is tending"
"to tighten more and more the exclusive circle of those who"
"govern it. The just demands heard from this rostrum are"
"now sounding the alarm at the march of ideas being"
"promoted mainly in our host country."
"Just a few weeks ago, the Chairman of the United"
"States Senate Foreign Relations Committee issued an"
"ultimatum for the United Nations to carry out reforms in"
"accordance with the prescriptions of that country or else"
"face the consequences. His articles in renowned"
"publications question precisely the principles on which this"
"institution is founded, particularly the principle of"
"sovereign equality of States."
"For this influential United States politician and those"
"who identify themselves with his primitive views, there is"
"only one argument: some States deserve more privileges"
"than others. In this way they try to make a dead letter of"
"the principle of sovereign equality of States, the"
"cornerstone of the Charter adopted over 50 years ago in"
"San Francisco."
"But there is more: the Government of the United"
"States of America, which owes the United Nations the"
"shameful amount of over $1.5 billion, assumes, with no"
"embarrassment whatsoever, the right to determine"
"unilaterally who can or cannot be the Secretary-General"
"of the United Nations and to declare how an Organization"
"deliberately deprived of the resources required for the"
"fulfilment of its functions should or should not be"
"managed."
"Eighty per cent of the work of the United Nations"
"system is devoted to assisting the developing countries"
"and to strengthening their ability to help themselves. This"
"endeavour includes the aspiration to receive fair treatment"
"in international economic relations; to try to save children"
"from starvation and disease; to promote emergency"
"assistance to refugees and disaster victims; to attempt to"
"combat crime, drug addiction and disease; to promote"
"education and the development of human resources; and"
"to tackle the enormous task of halting or slowing the"
"progressive ecological deterioration of our planet."
"These are precisely the functions that the notorious"
"United States Senator is trying to abolish, and it is"
"because of the existence of those programmes that the"
"managerial approach of the Secretary-General is so"
"fiercely attacked."
"That position of the planets most powerful country"
"is not aimed against one person; rather, using the question"
"of the Organizations efficiency as a pretext, it stands"
"against the United Nations mandate to attend to the needs"
"of the great majority of mankind. It is a new and gross"
"attempt to impose on the community of nations the will"
"of a single State in the management of the multilateral"
"forum of cooperation that should be the most"
"representative and democratic one in the world."
"We should ask ourselves if we, the members of this"
"Assembly, can passively accept the threat posed by this"
"unilateral imposition. It is fitting to recall what Harry"
"24"
NA
NA
"Truman said of the Charter of the United Nations at the"
"San Francisco Conference in 1945:"
"If we fail to use it, we shall betray all those"
"who have died in order that we might meet here in"
"freedom and safety to create it."
"If we seek to use it selfishly  for the"
"advantage of any one nation or any small group of"
"nations  we shall be equally guilty of that betrayal."
"(Documents of the United Nations Conference on"
"International Organization, San Francisco, 1945,"
"vol. 1, p. 687)"
"Further comment is unnecessary; subsequent history"
"has been quite eloquent enough. But the most dangerous"
"thing, as has often been said, is that the United Nations is"
"merely the reflection of the world in which we live. This"
"domineering unilateralism shows up even more crudely in"
"the daily conduct of international relations. In a world in"
"which relations of respect, good-neighbourliness and"
"cooperation among the peoples and Governments should be"
"fostered every day, the fact is that one Power, resting on its"
"unquestionable economic, military and technological might,"
"seeks to impose rules and norms of conduct on the rest of"
"the world, thus undermining the sovereign rights of each"
"and every one of our nations."
"What political, legal or moral reason underlies and"
"legitimizes the missile attack against the Republic of Iraq"
"by the United States Armed Forces just a few days ago?"
"What principles or claims can be used to cover up the"
"unilateral and unjustified use of force? The Security"
"Council did not yield to that unilateral aggression, but it has"
"not been able to formulate a clear position on the matter"
"because of its well-known structural and procedural"
"deficiencies and also because of the tolerance and impunity"
"with which the international community has recently"
"accepted the haughty arrogance of a Government that"
"assumes the right to punish sovereign nations at its whim"
"under spurious pretexts."
"There is no justification for trampling the territorial"
"integrity of a full-fledged Member of this Organization, and"
"even less for that action to be taken by a single"
"Government, nor for threatening the peace and security of"
"a region inhabited by tens of millions of persons. And all"
"this has taken place while the political experts of the"
"aggressor country could not agree on which was its"
"strongest motivation: the wretched oil interests or the frenzy"
"of the ongoing carnival-like electoral campaign in the"
"United States."
"It is incredible that world politics can be paralysed,"
"that foreign ministries postpone decisions and that"
"Governments advance or delay responses to national or"
"international dilemmas, thinking only of their"
"repercussions in that North American simulacrum of"
"democracy. Anything can happen, and no country, legal"
"precept or moral principle seems to be safe. Fortunately,"
"the super-elections are held only every four years,"
"because if they took place annually, like the sessions of"
"the General Assembly, living on this planet would be true"
"madness."
"The Helms-Burton Act, aimed against everyones"
"sovereignty and against Cuba, a sovereign State, was"
"conceived as an additional effort to subdue our people"
"through hunger and poverty. It is an eloquent example of"
"the absurd will to impose imperial designs on sovereign"
"and independent countries in the conduct of their own"
"international and trade relations. For that reason, it has"
"been unanimously rejected by the international"
"community. That law, ignoring the General Assembly"
"resolutions on the issue, is intended to strengthen further"
"the blockade against our country."
"For a century  and especially during the last 37"
"years  the Cuban people have had to face the"
"hegemonic vocation of successive United States"
"Governments. The extraterritorial ambitions of our"
"neighbour, its attempts to question the sovereign decisions"
"of another State and its violation of the universally"
"recognized principles of international trade are realities"
"with which Cuba has been familiar for a long time."
"When we denounced the crime that was about to"
"take place, it was neither to frighten nor to play with"
"anyone. The Helms-Burton Act, the most sophisticated"
"bungle of the economic war against Cuba, attacks many"
"countries and compels them to experience in their own"
"sovereignty what we Cubans have been facing for a long"
"time. The world can now better understand what so many"
"years of continuous offences and extraterritorial acts have"
"meant for my homeland."
"Another instance of unipolarity and of the attempt to"
"dictate the conduct of sovereign States is the law known"
"as DAmato-Kennedy, which has also received universal"
"repudiation. It repeats the philosophy of imposition and"
"ratifies the tendency to apply United States law beyond its"
"borders. The argument for this is the alleged war against"
"terrorism, when, in fact, the United States was the main"
"promoter of terrorism in its dirty wars in Nicaragua, El"
"Salvador, Angola and South Africa, against the"
"25"
NA
NA
"Palestinian patriots and in many other countries  the"
"United States has always supported the bloodiest regimes"
"that have ever existed in this world."
"There are just causes and unjust causes. No one will"
"ever have the right to kill innocent people, regardless of the"
"objectives being pursued. This does not negate any peoples"
"right to use weapons against its oppressors: to fight cleanly,"
"yes; to kill innocents, never. A State cannot be allowed to"
"arrogate to itself the right to accuse, condemn and sanction"
"other nations and to impose by force an illegitimate crusade"
"that often serves to disguise the real terrorists."
"Cuba  which has been the victim of many terrorist"
"actions and has for many years faced repeated attempts on"
"the lives of its political leaders, as well as sabotage,"
"biological warfare, the destruction of a passenger plane in"
"flight and the hijacking of aircraft, and which suffers even"
"today from armed infiltrations and which has been, above"
"all, the victim of brutal economic terrorism  expects a"
"joint and conscious effort from the international community"
"to address the terrorism that has its origins in Langley,"
"Virginia  that is to say, at the Central Intelligence"
"Agency  and later spreads to many countries of the"
"world."
"Drug trafficking, in our opinion, should be dealt with"
"in the same manner. The drug issue should not be"
"transformed into an instrument of pressure against"
"underdeveloped countries, many of which do not have"
"sufficient resources to tackle this scourge. This problem has"
"taken on global dimensions and can be confronted only by"
"sharing responsibilities and using the mechanisms offered"
"by the United Nations."
"The policy of conferring arbitrary certifications is"
"unacceptable, and even more so is its use as a pretext to"
"interfere in the internal affairs of sovereign nations. The"
"country whose enormous rates of consumption have become"
"the main market for and driving force behind this criminal"
"industry, the country in whose territory the greatest profits"
"of this business are generated, does not have the moral"
"authority to assign responsibility to or demand it from"
"others. What would happen if the world, truly concerned by"
"the scourge of drugs, were to decertify unanimously the"
"greatest drug consumer? To put it another way, people who"
"live in glass houses should not throw stones, and he who"
"has a beam in his eye should not be so concerned about the"
"mote in anothers."
"No one can disregard the immense influence of the"
"United States in the so-called post-cold-war period, but"
"mankind would be making a mistake if it were to look"
"with indifference upon the currents of thought within that"
"country that entertain the possibility of governing the rest"
"of the world or of acting with utter disregard for the"
"rights and interests of other peoples. We are facing a"
"King Kong escaped from his cage, destroying and"
"crushing everything around him, aimlessly and out of"
"control."
"We are not trying to convince this forum that the"
"United States is the source of all the evils of the planet,"
"but it would be a mistake to ignore reality and not to take"
"timely preventive actions  preferably collective ones "
"to admonish to sanity the persons charged with guiding"
"that country politically, to do so with a minimum of"
"responsibility and to understand that the power of any"
"nation, important as it might be, has its limits."
"The world is more plagued by uncertainty today than"
"when the new world order was demagogically proclaimed."
"On the threshold of the new millennium, the numbers of"
"armed conflicts between States, ethnic groups and"
"religions have increased. What we see everywhere is not"
"a new order but, rather, a disquieting world in perfect"
"disorder. The social and economic consequences of these"
"conflicts have no parallel in contemporary history, but we"
"cannot simply pretend that military imposition, coercion"
"and sanctions are a universal panacea that can solve the"
"numerous humanitarian problems of the world."
"Inequalities, rampant underdevelopment,"
"globalization and the interdependence that is increasingly"
"turning into the worst form of dependency should"
"disappear so that these new conflicts may, in turn, be"
"eradicated for ever from this world, which, based on"
"injustice, is becoming increasingly ungovernable."
"Economic models based on neoliberal philosophy"
"have spread throughout much of the third world with the"
"support of the international financial institutions. Although"
"these models have generated deceptive, apparently"
"attractive macroeconomic indicators, in practice they go"
"hand in hand with an increase in poverty, marginalization,"
"environmental degradation, disease, ignorance, social"
"conflict, a loss of national resources and sovereignty "
"in short, with the most brutal and increasingly irreversible"
"underdevelopment."
"This neoliberal school of thought is based on"
"artificial paradigms that should be unmasked. It is false"
"that the market, with its magical invisible hand, is the"
"definitive solution for the immense disruptions affecting"
"the international economy and that it is the miraculous"
"26"
NA
NA
"remedy that would liberate many countries, home to the"
"vast majority of the earths population, from"
"underdevelopment and poverty."
"It is false that absolute privatization, which can benefit"
"only the few, brings well-being to the legions of the poor"
"and the wretched living in the third world."
"It is false that geography determines the economic"
"power of peoples."
"It is false that genetics determines which human"
"beings are born to be poor and wretched and which are"
"born under the shining star of wealth and extravagance."
"It is false that the State or Government is the main"
"source of corruption and inefficiency and should renounce"
"responsibility for welfare, health and education, leaving"
"these obligations mainly in private hands whose motivations"
"will always be limited and discriminatory and are frequently"
"based on greed."
"It is false that the poor, the oppressed and the"
"exploited should have a lesser role in ultra-modern"
"societies."
"It is false that social justice and equity always have to"
"be sacrificed for the sake of commercial efficiency."
"It is false that the total removal of protection for"
"national industries in the developing countries will yield"
"higher productivity, wealth, employment and well-being for"
"their peoples."
"It is false that the sovereignty of nations is an"
"outmoded principle of international coexistence and that"
"Governments and countries are ready to abandon it because"
"of the strength of transnational capital and the social-"
"political models exported by the North."
"Finally, it is false that the neoliberal models that have"
"been sold to us will raise the indicators or levels of human"
"development set as objectives by the United Nations."
"One should check the statistics and compare annual"
"reports, not just between one country and another, but also"
"between indicators for the third world from one year to the"
"next in areas such as infant mortality, poverty, education,"
"life expectancy, access to drinking water, human"
"settlements, schooling for children, and doctors per number"
"of inhabitants."
"All these falsities, many of them recorded in United"
"Nations documents, hide the bankruptcy of development"
"prospects for most of the poor countries, which is already"
"threatening world stability and aggravating the ecological"
"deterioration we all recognized several years ago at the"
"historic Rio Conference. The poor are already falling into"
"the immense and ever wider chasm separating them from"
"the rich, who continue to grow disproportionately and"
"irresponsibly without realizing that sooner or later their"
"own weight will also drag them down into the same pit."
"And, in this aberrant context, what are we to say"
"about the arms race? The rivalry between the big Powers"
"and the arms race have supposedly disappeared. Why,"
"then, in spite of the adoption of international instruments"
"supposedly to that end, is there such resistance to real"
"nuclear disarmament that will free humanity for ever from"
"that scourge? Who is responsible for the fact that the"
"recently adopted Treaty to ban all nuclear tests does not"
"cover simulated laboratory tests in which new lethal"
"weapons will be perfected by those who monopolize"
"them, or any commitment to the destruction of arsenals?"
"Unless we discover life in other galaxies, where will the"
"enemies endangering the big Powers come from?"
"Fifty-one years after the creation of the United"
"Nations, instead of seeing wealth and development extend"
"from the North to the South, we see the growing threat of"
"underdevelopment moving inexorably from the South to"
"the North."
"It is said that hunger and poverty are on the rise. In"
"fact, what has also happened is that wealth is more and"
"more concentrated, increasingly exclusive and limited,"
"while walls higher than the one that fell in Berlin are"
"being built."
"Let us be frank: the North is not as rich as it seems,"
"nor is the South as poor as they want to make it. Almost"
"all the wealth of the North comes from the wealth and"
"resources of the South. And all the hunger and poverty of"
"the South is nothing other than the legacy of over 500"
"years of exploitation and disregard for our human rights."
"If we cannot reverse this situation collectively, by"
"sharing the burden and improving living conditions in the"
"developing countries, no one will be able to stop the"
"waves of migrants attracted by the sirens song of wealthy"
"and opulent societies."
"The United Nations has a vast arsenal of documents,"
"resolutions and initiatives conceived for those purposes"
"27"
NA
NA
"but never implemented. Soon it will be too late. Today we"
"can still act."
"While all this is happening, the blockade of Cuba"
"continues. With the Helms-Burton Act, it has become even"
"clearer that it is not just an embargo, because in the last"
"few months, the United States, through its words and deeds,"
"has sent the world sure signals that what is really being"
"waged against my country is a long and dirty economic war"
"for total control over our sovereignty and our markets."
"The criminal blockade, as part of its frightening"
"network of measures created over 35 years, has now a"
"Draconian law that publicly calls for a world crusade to"
"change forcibly the Cuban constitutional order and undo a"
"revolution defended by our people at the cost of their lives."
"What have we come to when United States diplomats,"
"on the ugliest mission since the Viet Nam war, tell the"
"world that they are granting it a few months sovereignty"
"before trampling upon it if the world does not join their"
"war on Cuba?"
"I am fulfilling the mandate bestowed on me by the"
"free people of Cuba to proclaim in front of the"
"international community of nations that we will persevere"
"in our efforts to defend our social, political and economic"
"actions aimed at ensuring equality, justice and well-being"
"for all Cubans."
"Our own experience is the best contribution we can"
"make as a nation towards meeting the enormous"
"challenges facing humanity, as has been shown by Cubas"
"economic, political and social achievements in the last"
"year. A country that has overcome a serious economic"
"crisis, that maintains its governability, that grows and"
"develops with the solidarity of many, that expands its"
"relations throughout the world and that grows stronger "
"this is a country with a future."
"The socialism we have chosen for our homeland is"
"our only emancipatory, moral and ethical alternative, with"
"roots firmly planted in the history of our nation. It is a"
"path that we chose in freedom and sovereignty, a path"
"that we shall not renounce and that no one imposed on us."
"We wish to live in harmony with all the countries of"
"the world, including the United States. Cuba wants and"
"needs peace. But let us be clear: Cuba is not and never"
"will be willing to sacrifice, under pressure from anyone"
"or in exchange for anything, the independence,"
"sovereignty and self-determination that it has achieved"
"and defended at such a high price."
"Today, in that blue Caribbean that shelters us, we"
"Cubans will continue with our heads held high, with our"
"feet on the ground and with our eyes on the future. Thus"
"do we defend our choice: to live in the free and sovereign"
"homeland dreamed of by our founding fathers and"
"achieved by our fathers and grandfathers."
"Let there be no doubt. We shall overcome."
"Ernesto Che Guevara, Commander, Minister and"
"head of the Cuban delegation to the nineteenth session of"
"the General Assembly, stated 33 years ago, from this very"
"rostrum:"
"We wish to see this Assembly stretch its limbs"
"and march forward; we want the Committees to begin"
"their work, which should not stop at the first"
"confrontation. [Official Records of the General"
"Assembly, Nineteenth Session, Plenary Meetings,"
"1299th meeting, para. 81]"
"And, as if he could already see the present, he added:"
"Imperialism seeks to convert this meeting into a"
"pointless competition in oratory, to prevent it from"
"solving the serious problems of the world; that design"
"we must frustrate. (Ibid.)"
"At that time, on our planet some 700 million people"
"were illiterate; 200 million were unemployed; and over 1"
"billion were eking out a precarious existence. That reality"
"contravened the principle that humans are the source of"
"development, as well as its agents and beneficiaries, and"
"should be considered, above all, as the justification and"
"purpose of development."
"As the years went by, the situation worsened. Today,"
"not only are the industrialized nations imposing conditions"
"on or denying outright a meagre share of their plentiful"
"resources as official development assistance for the"
"development of the poorest nations, but some of them, like"
"ostriches, are burying their head in the sand and"
"disregarding that obligation."
"Although missions to Mars are widely publicized and"
"assurances are given that the world economy is growing,"
"the distressing truth remains that today in the world a"
"billion people are illiterate; as many are unemployed or"
"underemployed; and more than 2 billion are living under"
"subhuman conditions."
"Among these, we note with dismay, are the 425,000"
"children worldwide who, since Tuesday, 16 September,"
"when this session started, have died from preventable"
"diseases. Those 425,000 children were sacrificed in the"
"name of efficiency, quality and consumption  a pattern"
"of consumption that today requires an irrational and"
"unsustainable development, to which those children never"
"even had access."
"Time is not just slipping by; we are letting it slip"
"through our fingers. With it, we are losing also our"
"opportunities to save our planet, which is sick and beset"
"in a thousand ways because the men and women who"
"have been gathering here for the last 52 years on behalf"
"of our peoples have in many cases been unable"
"consistently to translate words into deeds."
"Why, on the threshold of a new century, should we"
"allow such a crime to take place? Where is that promised"
"land, that higher society, that paradise craved by millions"
"of human beings? How can we dream today, when the"
"overwhelming majority of human beings cannot even"
"sleep because violence, hunger and disease keep them"
"awake?"
"Over five decades ago, the nations of the world"
"decided to unite against war and to work in peace for"
"progress and cooperation among peoples. But since then,"
"no one has enjoyed real and lasting peace. As many"
"people have become the victims of violence and armed"
"conflicts in the wake of the fall of the Berlin Wall as"
"were killed in the 15-year Viet Nam war."
"Our memory has become so short that those same"
"people who raised their voices against the German"
"capitals concrete wall now justify, promote and even"
"stand up for a 10-times larger and much more heavily"
"fortified wall that would divide the poor South from the"
"developed North, along the Rio Grande all the way to"
"Baja California, and which very few dare to denounce."
"Likewise, an absurd hypocrisy allows military"
"expenditures to be the number one business in the world,"
"with close to $900 billion in circulation, followed by drug"
"smuggling, with upwards of $500 billion, while as much"
"money is invested in a modern bomber as would be"
"required to relieve the foreign debt of the 20 countries"
"most heavily burdened by that scourge."
"Divide and conquer: the Roman maxim for"
"subduing the ancient world is increasingly and ever more"
"forcefully becoming the slogan of the era of outer space"
"27"
NA
NA
"and information superhighways. The only form of concerted"
"action that seems to be fully consolidated is the one that,"
"from here, proposes and undertakes humanitarian"
"interventions and operations aimed at enforcing,"
"maintaining or consolidating peace and democracy in the"
"wake of conflicts; preventive and early-warning actions; and"
"all those various ways of disguising new wars."
"If we fail to stop this, the upcoming third millennium"
"will not find peaceful and generous comity among nations."
"Nor will it bring any closer the anticipated miracle of"
"multiplying loaves and fishes for all through development"
"and rational exchange. On the contrary, consumerism,"
"environmental deterioration, illiteracy, xenophobia,"
"terrorism, drug addiction, famine, AIDS, prostitution and all"
"those visible symptoms of the human rationality"
"immunodeficiency syndrome that our planet is suffering"
"from will devour us. Can it be, as one poet says, that"
"people are mean and undeserving and we should therefore"
"accept the idea that the already foreseen end of history will"
"be followed by the end of the human race?"
"If we resign ourselves to the fact that 285 people can"
"possess riches equal to the ill-apportioned wealth of 2.5"
"billion other human beings, it might be that a doomsday of"
"similar proportions awaits us should we fail to change the"
"course of events. Just one detail: were it not for the 2.5"
"billion people doomed to sacrifice, it would be very"
"unlikely that the other 285 people could survive, regardless"
"of how much more wealth they would be able to"
"accumulate."
"All these problems belong to this world, not another."
"They are ours, as much as these Disunited Nations, which"
"we are unable to cast into a true gathering of Governments"
"and peoples designed to change and save our planet."
"In the light of these problems, many of us wonder"
"whether the words of a powerful minority are worth more"
"than the lives of that overwhelming majority of human"
"beings who for many reasons are not only deprived of their"
"right to say a word, but also lack the resolution and the"
"power to exercise that right when they do have it."
"We also wonder how there can be talk of"
"multilateralism when we see an endlessly increasing"
"unilateralism and when the so-called de-ideologized world"
"imposes on us a sole and exclusive ideology. Something is"
"wrong when speeches on plurality are made while attempts"
"are made to impose uniformity on the world; things are"
"even worse if, instead of everyone having the same rights"
"and duties  as should be the case  in fact, a few have"
"more and more rights whereas the vast majority only get"
"more and more duties."
"We dedicated the decade which is just concluding to"
"international law with a view to honouring it with"
"concrete actions. However, in this very building there"
"have been talks and negotiations about, and even votes"
"against, these principles and international law itself. We"
"should ask ourselves once again when we will actually"
"conclude the agreements on nuclear disarmament, and"
"when the use of force or threats will be once and for all"
"banned in international relations. Why allow certain"
"Powers to pursue with impunity the arms race, their"
"military hegemony and the defiant nuclear tests in"
"laboratories and computers while they try to ban them for"
"the rest?"
"How can we stop those who split whole nations"
"apart, prevent their peaceful reunification and finance and"
"arm regimes that violate human rights? All the"
"endeavours to establish a new, just and equitable"
"economic world order, free of humiliating conditions and"
"restrictive and onerous practices, are brutally challenged"
"by a powerful minority that reserves the worst and"
"cruellest of the infernos for the rest of the planet."
"A handful of the rich will never be able to represent"
"the vast multitudes of human beings, deprived every day"
"of their right to know that they are human, multitudes on"
"whom cultural transnationalization imposes an information"
"order capable of homogenizing even the news of their"
"very lives. Nor can one accept that the select club should"
"decree in a totalitarian way the political and juridical"
"order of the peoples, without even asking who we are,"
"where we are coming from and what we rely upon to go"
"where we sovereignly wish. Those belonging to that club,"
"and they alone, are the ones primarily responsible for the"
"fact that today cardinal principles of international law,"
"such as self-determination, national independence, non-"
"interference in domestic affairs, and particularly respect"
"for the sovereignty of States are questioned."
"That is why Cuba asserts our right to differ, and"
"why we reiterate the position expressed by our President"
"more than three decades ago:"
"As long as the concept of sovereignty exists as a"
"prerogative of nations and independent peoples, as a"
"right of all peoples, we do not accept the exclusion"
"of our people from that right. As long as the world"
"is guided by those principles, as long as the world is"
"guided by those concepts, which have universal"
"28"
NA
NA
"validity, because they are universally accepted and"
"enshrined by the peoples, we will not accept being"
"deprived of any of those rights; we will not relinquish"
"any of those rights."
"For us there is absolutely no doubt that sovereignty"
"continues to be a concept and a prerogative of independent"
"States, and that in todays unipolar world that principle has"
"even more force and validity than ever before."
"Economies, cultures and peoples are subjugated under"
"the drum roll of globalization; development becomes as"
"remote as stars to which we cannot travel, and wealth is"
"increasingly polarized. Under the impulse of this"
"globalization, vaunted new technological and scientific"
"displays are poisoning the environment, crushing"
"biodiversity and condemning to extinction the most"
"precarious and wonderful of all species: mankind."
"It would be good if that global interdependency could"
"stop the frantic consumption, balance national development"
"patterns, make economies sustainable and multiply the"
"riches of the peoples. Even better, if ideas are to be truly"
"globalized, let us welcome the clamour for urgent reform of"
"this United Nations, as remote from its own origins as it is"
"unable to cope with the era in which we are living. That"
"could be dreamt of, if at least the reform started with a"
"comprehensive and inclusive endeavour, democratizing all"
"its bodies while preserving its universal character, its"
"political essence and its intergovernmental nature."
"It is high time to go beyond the rhetoric in which we"
"have been immersed for two years, since we celebrated the"
"fiftieth anniversary of the Organization with talk of reform,"
"with talk about transformations, without saying what, who,"
"how and when. If we are to be occupied, and not only"
"preoccupied, with reform, let us reject, as incompatible with"
"this Organization, the corporate and transnational approach"
"promoted by some of the main United Nations contributors,"
"as if this building were a stock exchange and the just"
"desires of the peoples were mere merchandise."
"The reforms must permit the General Assembly to"
"really exercise its prerogatives, including those which have"
"been usurped, while preserving the principle of equality of"
"all Member States, whose genuine political will is essential"
"to advance. Intergovernmental participation in considering"
"and adopting decisions on any reform package should be a"
"fundamental precondition if we really want to tend to the"
"needs of the historically forgotten majority in the world."
"Likewise, our peoples, especially the poorest ones, will"
"understand only those decisions that are reflected in their"
"lives and homes  not those that satisfy only their"
"Governments."
"Cuba also advocates reform that especially"
"strengthens United Nations structures and activities that"
"are related to the promotion of economic and social"
"development. The simplification, rationalization or"
"reorientation of those structures must be the result of a"
"process that always guarantees full completion and"
"implementation of all programmes, mandates and"
"activities in those areas."
"The United Nations should recover its real decision-"
"making capacity in other critical issues, such as those"
"related to free trade, development financing and other"
"monetary topics. Any measure handing that role over to"
"the main contributors must be blocked."
"Further, we should all endorse again the Charter"
"obligation to contribute to stable and unconditional"
"financing, making possible the effective and efficient"
"implementation of all programmes, priorities, mandates"
"and activities approved by the General Assembly. The"
"approval of a budget for each programme reflecting the"
"total resources required for the Organization to carry out"
"all its activities will be a cornerstone of that endeavour."
"Along these lines, we oppose any formula based on"
"the extortion and pressure that are exerted by some"
"countries, particularly by the country which is the main"
"contributor to the United Nations  as well as its deepest"
"debtor, economically and morally speaking."
"But to achieve the more democratic, efficient and"
"dynamic United Nations we are dreaming of, it is"
"essential that the reforms reach the heart of one of its"
"principal organs: the Security Council must stop being a"
"bunker impenetrable to the General Assemblys demands"
"for an equitable and fair expansion. While some of the"
"richest and most powerful States are already taking long"
"strides towards any new seats that might appear, there are"
"attempts to mislead, and even to deny the right of the"
"third world to its due representation on the Council on an"
"equal footing with the rest of the permanent members."
"Worse yet, the saw of division is once again cutting"
"through the body of the poor to the benefit of the big"
"industrialized countries."
"Let us reach agreement once and for all. If we want"
"real security, what we agree upon must not further"
"increase the appalling imbalances that today insult and"
"exterminate us. Hence the importance of reforming the"
"29"
NA
NA
"composition and procedures of the Security Council, and of"
"rectifying the largest existing imbalance, by enabling"
"developing countries to become members based on"
"equitable geographical representation and simultaneity of"
"accession by new members."
"The Council will never be secure until transparency,"
"democracy and the participation of non-member States"
"forever take the place of the present dangerous and"
"concealed manoeuvres. Peace will never be guaranteed until"
"the obsolete and antidemocratic institution of the veto"
"disappears, or is at least restricted pending its final"
"elimination. That is the only way to prevent the abuses of"
"power that today prevail in this Organization and in the"
"Security Council. By confronting these abuses together, we"
"will prevent the coercive policies and unilateral measures"
"generated by certain States from becoming multilateral."
"I know a teenager who is the pride of his parents. He"
"likes baseball, is a good student and dreams an ocean of"
"dreams. But it has recently been discovered that he suffers"
"from leukaemia. The medicines to cure him exist, and the"
"treatment could cost less than $15,000 if we act in time."
"Cuba has been forced to arrange a discrete transaction to"
"obtain through friendly third parties, and at a total cost of"
"$60,000, the medicines to save that childs life."
"That is the blockade: for the price of four treatments,"
"we could afford only one. With the money to save four"
"lives, only one will be saved. But this is not the only"
"example. Despite its very limited income, Cuba continues"
"to pay hundreds of millions of dollars in price differences,"
"surcharges, freight and other additional charges in its"
"imports of fuel, food, medicines and other basic products."
"Financial credits crucial for the economic recovery and"
"growth were suspended or postponed or became more"
"expensive, while all markets labelled us as a risk for fear"
"of the unilateral punishment that could fall on Governments"
"and banks if they lent us money."
"On top of all of that, and because of the protectionism"
"of pharmaceutical patents, Cubans have been deprived of"
"free access to medicines that have appeared on the market"
"since 1979, including third-generation antibiotics and other"
"drugs to treat AIDS and cancer."
"Cuba has no need to exaggerate the facts. It suffers"
"them first, contemplates them afterwards, and always"
"exposes them with a calm sense of responsibility. The tale"
"of a giant Goliath against a small David could have been"
"taken from the Bible, but the minstrels and chroniclers of"
"the next millennium will find plenty of inspiration in the"
"conflict between the United States and Cuba."
"Almost 40 years of resistance and of defence of our"
"bold ideals of independence against our brutal neighbour"
"who covets and loathes us provide us with the authority"
"to speak. More than 35 years of struggle against the cruel"
"and inhumane economic, commercial and financial"
"blockade by the United States of America support our"
"arguments. Every new charge made by Cuba is supported"
"by more than $60 billion in losses  and that is not a"
"full assessment  by an economy distorted by the war"
"conditions imposed on us, and by the incalculable human,"
"physical and psychological damage we have sustained."
"Every year sees an increase in the number of"
"countries that vote by an overwhelming majority to put an"
"end to that dirty, savage and silent war. Yet the blockade"
"not only remains in effect, but has been cruelly and"
"arrogantly strengthened before the very eyes of the world,"
"which remains hamstrung in the face of the power of the"
"Empire."
"Where are the courage and bravery that turned our"
"species into a giant? Why should we tolerate the"
"diplomacy of intimidation and blackmail? For how long"
"will the world sit on its hands and watch so merciless a"
"crime?"
"It was such impunity that gave free rein to those"
"who expedited the enactment of the criminal Helms-"
"Burton Act as a new escalation of the blockade and as"
"additional and convincing proof of a threat that goes"
"beyond all borders. It is extraterritorial from top to"
"bottom, because it was conceived and implemented"
"against another sovereign State, with which they"
"hypocritically maintain they are not at war; at the same"
"time, it is extraterritorial against the rest of the world,"
"upon which they are attempting to impose the narrow"
"jurisdiction of a clumsy national legal artifice."
"This abhorred and oft-condemned imperial recipe has"
"not met with any actions forceful enough to stop it. Its"
"adoption gave rise to other aberrations, such as the"
"DAmato-Kennedy Act; and state and federal legislation"
"of the same kind proliferates in that country."
"Similar measures already affect more than 35"
"sovereign States  that is, 2.3 billion people, accounting"
"for 42 per cent of the worlds population and a potential"
"market of $790 billion. These data, provided by the"
"United States Presidents Advisory Council on Export"
"30"
NA
NA
"Control and the American Institute for International"
"Economy, prove that such extraterritorial policies also result"
"in harm to the American people themselves, who in one"
"year alone lost half a million jobs and more than $1 billion"
"in salaries because of them."
"Insane politicians and legislators end up by restricting"
"the very values of freedom upon which that great country"
"was founded and, in its name, prevent millions of American"
"youth from gaining access to information about a world"
"festival of youth and students held in Havana last summer."
"Those who attempt today to cross that new iron curtain risk"
"$250,000 dollar fines and up to 10 years in prison. Despite"
"those threats, about a thousand young men and women"
"from the United States challenged the veto on their"
"freedom  no one could prevent them  and attended the"
"Havana festival anyway."
"Such policies and concepts also affect the vast"
"majority of our countrymen living in the United States, for"
"years victims of criminal organizations and their hirelings"
"based in Miami, used in the dirtiest deals and electoral"
"manoeuvres, and even used as cannon fodder against their"
"own people and their own motherland. Among them, a"
"silent majority of immigrants is emerging ever stronger"
"every day, rejecting the genocide against their motherland."
"Despite all this, the raving obsession of the reactionary"
"circles never seems to stop, as a true tyranny attempts"
"increasingly to reach out for the goal of world power."
"Today, new bills are being debated in the Congress in"
"Washington, blooming under the shelter of instruments"
"already approved in the Helms-Burton legal atrocity."
"Today, independent nations are being bullied every six"
"months so that they can obtain a sovereignty certificate"
"from the White House Oval Office to avoid retaliation for"
"their relations with Cuba."
"Today, attempts to curb free trade with false excuses"
"of national security are jolting the newly born World Trade"
"Organization, and their doubtful seriousness begins to worry"
"the most distinguished United States authorities."
"Today, deals are made behind the backs of peoples,"
"Governments and Parliaments to impose moratoriums on"
"investments, and secret pseudo-legal arguments, based on"
"dubious morality, are concocted to disguise the"
"shamelessness of those who yield to pressure."
"Today, there are blacklists of foreign companies and"
"businessmen who do not submit to the rules, therefore"
"being denied entry to that country, which regards itself as"
"super-free. Visas are also denied to their spouses and"
"children, to force them to yield to the empires will."
"Today, there are Governments that receive or await"
"certificates of good democratic behaviour, certificates that"
"they are defenders of selected and manipulated rights or"
"are outstanding anti-drug enforcers, in order to gain"
"access to a fast track to a free trade agreement, a trade"
"credit or development aid."
"Today, European citizens are being blackmailed by"
"attorneys, indicted and unjustly found guilty by United"
"States courts, which boast about their impartiality, under"
"such illegalities as the Helms-Burton Act."
"Today, there are imperialist diplomats, clones of"
"policemen, who share the stage with famous Hollywood"
"stars and who parade arrogantly among the Governments"
"and Parliaments of the world, with their siren song and"
"their well-known threats and offers of charity in exchange"
"for the most abject complicity."
"All of this madness has revived official and covert"
"operations, mercenaries, spies and assassins, as ready now"
"as in the worst days of the cold war to plot and unleash"
"terror against human beings and even employ aggressive"
"biological agents against our economy."
"No one, absolutely no one, has lifted a finger in the"
"United States Government to stop them. Diehard sectors"
"have usurped their constitutional rights in order to"
"exercise that power, and are obstructing them in the"
"meanest and pettiest way."
"The same gang of ultraconservatives and gangsters"
"is responsible for the acquittal of hijackers and impedes"
"the use of the term terrorists, while with a silent and"
"mysterious complicity they are bolstered, funded,"
"organized, armed, trained and assigned to intelligence"
"missions."
"Disguised as tourists, defenders of human rights or"
"philanthropists, those who today stir up greater and more"
"painful confrontations between Cuba and the United"
"States are identical to those who 35 years ago were"
"involved in the climate of aggression which led to the"
"missile crisis in October 1962."
"Unfortunately, there are people in the world who do"
"not see, or, even worse, do not want to see, these facts,"
"31"
NA
NA
"and from their sanctuaries they worry about our problems,"
"study us, advise us to surrender, design our future with the"
"same ingredients as our past, and even urge us to bear"
"everything with the utmost patience."
"Believe me, it is very hard to understand, for example,"
"the uneasiness caused by the lack of a variety of dishes on"
"the Cuban table, when there is not the least concern for the"
"millions of human beings to their south without tables or"
"dishes, and often without even a slice of bread. We shall"
"never understand or accept the longed-for renunciation of"
"what we are and what we have been as the contemptible"
"price that the people of socialist Cuba, like any other"
"people in the world, should pay for an uncertain"
"coexistence with a neighbour as disrespectful and arrogant"
"as it is powerful."
"The moral and legal support of 136 votes in this"
"Assembly encourages and comforts us in our struggle. But"
"it has not been enough to overcome the persistent arrogance"
"of the one who thinks himself the divine judge and lacks"
"the humility to admit the failure of a mistaken policy."
"Although their representatives may, as usual, leave the"
"Chamber, we know they are listening. Therefore, on behalf"
"of the people of free Cuba we wish them to know and to"
"convey to their Government and Congress that we have"
"absolutely no fear of them."
"We also know that only international pressure can"
"prevent these forms of aggression against Cuba, or any"
"other sovereign State, from multiplying."
"For these reasons, and because of our commitment to"
"the millions of Cubans whom we represent and on whose"
"behalf we now speak, we confirm that if our stubborn will"
"to resist costs us our lives, so be it a thousand times over."
"Never shall we submit again to being slaves of a haughty"
"and arrogant empire that refuses to recognize pluralism or"
"boundaries, an empire that decides to blockade our"
"existence and kill all hope."
"Our experience confirms to us today, more than ever,"
"that only the spirit of sacrifice, the loving, valiant, free and"
"selfless unity of our people and Government, can give us"
"the strength of character of Quixote to stand up to such"
"gigantic hardships."
"That is how we have been able to resist, along with"
"the most generous solidarity and understanding of thousands"
"of millions of people."
"Desiring only the noblest satisfaction, our people"
"volunteer and join in the titanic task of putting an end to"
"the cataclysms shaking the Earth and fighting for the"
"advent of a new millennium of emancipation, peace,"
"security and development for all nations."
"We ask for nothing, absolutely nothing, in return."
"We can only offer the example of having stoically"
"endured the harassment of the greatest Power in history,"
"of maintaining our principles and of continuing to believe,"
"work and move forward when many thought we had"
"stopped and were dying."
"The father of our independence said,"
"We Cubans do not seek and do not want anything"
"greater than honour, homeland and freedom."
"Everything else will come for sure and in bulk after"
"all that. What we need is to succeed."
"And our existence today is reason enough for us to assert"
"proudly that we have already succeeded."
"Because of that unique experience, we can also say"
"that this is a solemn and decisive time."
"The imperial Power that wants to subjugate the"
"world is no match for us if we stand together."
"We are a great and very powerful majority."
"There will be no place in history for those who stay"
"on their knees. Let us all rise, united!"
"To be or not to be."
"Never before has Shakespeare?s famous dilemma"
"been so valid. Half the world is shuddering with the"
"collapse of the stock exchanges, from Tokyo to Rio, from"
"Moscow to Buenos Aires, from London to Johannesburg,"
"and even right here in New York. We, the other half, are"
"also shuddering, not because of stock exchanges and"
"securities that we do not possess, but because the entire"
"burden of the global financial crash falls mercilessly on"
"us, and nobody, absolutely nobody, is safe."
"The long-predicted Armageddon has arrived, and not"
"just in a Hollywood movie. The huge global trap that our"
"increasingly distressed planet has become does not issue"
"licences for survival to countries or businesses. It does"
"not provide protection from acid rain or the impacts of El"
"Nio, nor does it abide by or believe in ideologies and"
"cultures. It does not offer life jackets to speculators or"
"mega-owners."
"As in the times of slavery, human beings have"
"become mere commodities, engrossed in buying and"
"selling each other instead of learning how to enjoy and"
"defend their rights, while poisonous luxuries, the enemies"
"of liberty, corrupt individuals and societies and deprive"
"entire peoples of their national identity."
"The inevitable globalization that we should have"
"reached through fraternity, solidarity and cooperation has"
"come upon us in such neoliberalized form that the liberal"
"economic thinking that gave rise to it cannot even be"
"recognized in this new dogma."
"34"
NA
NA
"The process of globalization and neoliberal"
"internationalization of the world economy has today"
"multiplied the advantages for developed countries to the"
"detriment of the increasingly underdeveloped economies."
"This makes them more vulnerable to external factors"
"beyond their control, such as the excruciating burden of"
"foreign debt, increasingly unequal rates of exchange, the"
"widening technological gap and the persistent decline in the"
"price of commodities, in the context of a ruthless,"
"speculative and hopelessly inhuman market."
"The inequitable trade relationship between rich and"
"poor, more akin to theft or swindle than trade, is a basic"
"element that explains this. According to International"
"Monetary Fund (IMF) data only 0.2 per cent annual growth"
"rate has been seen in non-fuel commodities between 1989"
"and 1998, while manufactured products grew at a rate of"
"0.9 per cent. How could economies whose terms of trade"
"deteriorated, during that same period, at an annual rate of"
"0.4 per cent and whose currencies were severely devaluated"
"be expected to grow?"
"The excruciating weight of foreign indebtedness  a"
"phenomenon that has become eternal with the increase of"
"inequitable trade  rose from $1.118 trillion in 1989 to"
"$1.875 trillion in 1998, for an annual average increase of 6"
"per cent. What counts is money and finance, not"
"development or human well-being."
"Neoliberal globalization and some of its basic"
"components, such as the liberalization of trade and free"
"competition, do not in themselves mean that there will be"
"an acceleration of economic growth or development in"
"underdeveloped countries. At the same time, unrestrained"
"deregulation and privatization have removed from the"
"agenda the required protection for goods, services and"
"workers in the third world."
"Unfair equal treatment is being granted to economies"
"that by their very nature, characteristics and volume are"
"unequal. Tariff barriers are being replaced with more subtle"
"and politically optional methods of protectionism, while a"
"club of selected owners, transnational corporations and"
"Governments negotiate, behind the backs of the vast"
"majority, a multilateral investment agreement that gives the"
"definitive seal of approval to subservience and exclusion."
"There is no need for any special telescope to find the"
"famous black holes that swallow stars in outer space. The"
"worst black hole of them all can be found right here on"
"Earth, right before our very eyes, where there was first a"
"gap and then an abyss, where the wealth of the rich grew"
"in step with the poverty of the poor."
"International cooperation and official aid for"
"development, funnelled through different organizations of"
"the United Nations system, are tending to decrease,"
"considerably affecting the efficiency and effectiveness of"
"the system?s work in the field of development."
"Even worse, we see attempts to further condition"
"such aid to political demands that injure national States"
"and undermine the sovereignty of countries and peoples."
"Furthermore, such attempts erode the authority of"
"Governments by determining their development policies,"
"which directly affects democratic governance. They also"
"bring about the resurgence of diseases that we thought"
"had been eradicated, generating high mortality rates and"
"premature aging of the world population. These are so"
"illegitimate that no one should support them."
"We, the victims, cannot be expected think as our"
"victimizers do. As Comrade Fidel Castro said only a few"
"weeks ago at the twelfth Summit of the Non-Aligned"
"Movement,"
"it is not possible to acquiesce in a world order"
"which embodies to the utmost the highest principles"
"and purposes of a system that for centuries"
"colonized, enslaved and plundered us all."
"Because these nations are so disunited, we have not"
"been able to elude the ravages of neoliberal globalization,"
"which is so alien in spirit to the groundbreaking"
"Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen and"
"contrary to the very letter of the Universal Declaration of"
"Human Rights, which in a few weeks will be 50 years"
"old. Against all logic, it is in our meetings, committees"
"and other forums that the prerogatives to which we are"
"entitled as human beings are being reduced to mere"
"caricatures in an insane race to alter the very foundations"
"of international law."
"We are constantly asked why we so stubbornly call"
"for the genuine democratization of the United Nations and"
"for far-reaching reform of its institutions. What does it"
"take to understand that, when we are on the verge of"
"bidding farewell to the second millennium, the world can"
"no longer be forced to follow Bretton Woods norms,"
"patterns and schemes that are consistent with a world"
"order born out of a war and that are now obsolete."
"35"
NA
NA
"The Dow Jones average sways and plummets just a"
"few blocks away from this building. Uncertainty and"
"hopelessness are rampant in the markets. Countries are"
"going bankrupt  and so are their Governments. Hundreds"
"of millions die of famine, disease, violence, terror and war."
"Some even become living dead, as they are deprived of"
"their national identity. But we are expected to accept that"
"here in the General Assembly those who unleashed this"
"madness are destroying the only truly democratic space"
"where we can act together."
"How much longer are we going to allow them to"
"continue imposing conditions, unilaterally launching"
"missiles, improving their nuclear arsenals and testing new"
"smart weapons, while they demand disarmament from the"
"poor and the illiterate? And further, they are preventing us"
"from doing away with the dictatorship of a Security Council"
"which refuses to expand or to give up or modify the power"
"of veto? There can be no talk of a Security Council that"
"provides legitimacy, let alone security, so long as that body"
"fails to abide by the powers conferred upon it in Article"
"XXIV of the Charter; so long as it ignores the powers of"
"other United Nations bodies; so long as its composition"
"remains inequitable; so long as each and every member"
"does not enjoy identical rights; so long as we in the third"
"world, the overwhelming majority of the world?s"
"population, are not duly represented."
"For Cuba, the one steadfast and sincere thing to do is"
"to alert the world to which we belong, and to struggle for"
"the values of freedom, justice, dignity and humanitarianism"
"that we believe in and uphold. These are the values that"
"should prevail for the sake of our endangered human"
"species. It is for this end that the resources made available"
"to the United Nations by its Member States should be used."
"Enough of politicizing budgets under the pretext of"
"alleged cost-effectiveness  as if the millions of African"
"children dying of curable diseases, the millions of illiterate"
"people in Latin America, or the millions of people"
"displaced by conflicts in Asia and the Middle East were"
"bolts of cloth, raw materials or spent fuel."
"Enough of the appalling facts cited in the latest"
"Human Development Report, issued two weeks ago, which"
"affirms that the barest consumption needs of over a billion"
"people are not being met at all, and that more than 4 billion"
"people lack essential health services and 2 billion suffer"
"from anaemia, including 55 million in industrialized"
"countries."
"Enough of accepting that the indicators of human"
"consumption in 70 countries have dropped below the"
"levels of 25 years ago."
"Enough of accepting that a child born in a developed"
"country will consume and pollute in his or her lifetime as"
"much as 50 children born in an underdeveloped country."
"Enough of accepting that three individuals in this"
"world have amassed fortunes equivalent to the total gross"
"domestic product of 48 States."
"Enough of accepting that the most powerful and"
"wealthy nation on Earth, with the highest per capita"
"income, should, according to the report, have the highest"
"rates of human poverty."
"Enough of demagogy. Let us make way for ethics,"
"generosity and humanitarianism. Let the debts be paid and"
"the current scale of assessments maintained. Let us put an"
"end to special United Nations peacekeeping operations"
"and to the arms market they have generated, and let us"
"strengthen the actions of the World Health Organization,"
"the United Nations Children?s Fund, the United Nations"
"Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the"
"Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,"
"the United Nations Development Programme, the Office"
"of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees"
"and the many other agencies that have truly endeavoured"
"throughout their existence to assert the rights of every"
"human being. That is the only really fair, responsible and"
"humane thing to do."
"In other words, let us not allow so many children to"
"die in the next few hours, days, months and years  such"
"as the 108,217 infants under five years of age, who have"
"died of preventable causes in the underdeveloped world"
"since we opened the fifty-third session last Monday,"
"without the Assembly or the international community of"
"nations being able to do anything about it."
"Let us keep the voice and mandate of the peoples"
"and Governments that make up the United Nations from"
"being drowned out by the inhumane interests of the"
"masters and their partners grouped in the Washington"
"consensus, which is how chaste, scholarly jargon"
"currently defines the alliance of countries and"
"international financial institutions that have dragged us all"
"into disastrous unipolar neoliberalization ruled by a"
"unique and criminal way of thinking which hypocritically"
"boasts of being pluralistic."
"36"
NA
NA
"Let us prevent heinous and disgusting phenomena such"
"as terrorism from being fostered in that way; both the"
"terrorism that constantly takes innocent lives  which"
"many seek to compare with the fight of other peoples that"
"have employed humanitarian and worthy methods in their"
"resort to weapons in order to win their rights  and the"
"other much more sophisticated, computerized and"
"globalized terrorism that turns the economy, politics and"
"ideas into a lethal weapon to secure the interests of a"
"restricted circle of selfish people who believe it is their"
"prerogative to unilaterally impose their laws and their"
"punishments on others."
"We recognize that drafting and implementing"
"international treaties are instrumental in our struggle against"
"terrorism. But if we are truly committed to achieving that"
"goal, then the power to investigate, prevent and punish"
"these acts must be assumed seriously by States as an"
"obligation which may not be delegated. There must be"
"genuine cooperation to apprehend perpetrators, and States"
"must prevent by all means possible terrorist acts against"
"other States being organized, encouraged, funded or"
"tolerated within their territory."
"Cuba, which has suffered from terrorism and to which"
"nothing that is human is alien, cannot but unequivocally"
"condemn such actions, methods and practices. Above all,"
"we denounce those responsible for fomenting, supporting,"
"funding, masterminding, propagating or tolerating these"
"loathsome actions, which, as recent events have illustrated,"
"turn their perpetrators into heinous Saturns, capable of"
"devouring their own children."
"For almost 40 years our homeland has had to defend"
"itself from aggression and harassment of all kinds: dirty"
"war, mercenary invasions, nuclear threat, veritable hunts"
"organized in attempts to murder our main leaders, pirate"
"attacks, constant acts of sabotage against our industry, our"
"agriculture and our economy, blowing up of airliners in"
"flight  as occurred in Barbados on 6 October 1976; over"
"a thousand hours a week of subversive radio and television"
"transmissions which illegally invade our radio-electronic"
"space; and biological warfare. Our tourist facilities have"
"endured terrorist attacks, employing Central American"
"mercenaries, organized and financed from the United States,"
"with the full awareness and tolerance of the authorities of"
"that country. Furthermore, we are also currently facing"
"further American criminal legislation aimed at intensifying"
"the dirtiest and longest economic war ever perpetrated"
"against any country. This is why we can speak about these"
"issues with absolute morality."
"I must say at least a few words about recent"
"accusations by the United States of alleged Cuban"
"espionage activities in Florida, which have been widely"
"disseminated by the mass media as something"
"extraordinary. I am sure the Assembly understands that"
"the most ridiculous and laughable thing to occur in recent"
"days in this nation of scandals is that the world?s biggest"
"spy, the United States, has accused of espionage the"
"world?s most spied upon country, Cuba."
"The reality we live in is not recognized in the"
"current Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Nobody"
"denies that this is a document of universal scope, the"
"outcome of the most progressive thinking of its time and"
"the international culmination of certain trends and values"
"that emerged from the horrors of the Second World War."
"However, it should not be forgotten that when we"
"embraced it in 1948 almost two thirds of humanity still"
"lived under the colonial and neo-colonial yoke. All those"
"countries had been reduced to mere objects of"
"international law. For them, the most traumatic experience"
"was not the war but underdevelopment, political exclusion"
"and the new and even more catastrophic economic battles"
"imposed upon them."
"While we uphold the values of our 50-year-old"
"Declaration, values which cannot be renounced, and reject"
"attempts to cause confusion over it and give it an"
"ideological and political nature, we must have the courage"
"and awareness to recognize its historical and conceptual"
"limitations, which illustrate that the time has come to"
"draft a new international charter of human rights capable"
"of meeting the requirements of the new millennium."
"If we do not do this now, what will be the use of all"
"the efforts made five years ago at the Vienna World"
"Conference on Human Rights to adopt a Declaration and"
"a Programme of Action? What will we tell our peoples?"
"Is it not the duty of democratic Governments to be"
"accountable to their voters for the discharge of their"
"international obligations? Will we finally recognize the"
"right to development as a fundamental, universal and"
"inalienable human right? Will unrelenting reality persuade"
"us that the universality, indivisibility and interdependence"
"of all human rights requires the acknowledgment of"
"national and regional characteristics and diverse historical,"
"cultural and religious heritages, as well as the need to"
"strengthen international cooperation concerning this issue"
"objectively and without selectivity?"
"37"
NA
NA
"The establishment of the Office of the High"
"Commissioner and other steps taken in this regard are just"
"fig leaves that fail to conceal all the embarrassing parts."
"Many goals have yet to be reached, such as the"
"demand of the Vienna Conference that all States abstain"
"from adopting unilateral measures contrary to international"
"law and the Charter of the United Nations which hinder"
"trade relations and impede the full realization of the rights"
"set forth in the Universal Declaration and its international"
"instruments, particularly the right of all people to living"
"standards adequate for their health and well-being "
"including nourishment, health care, housing and basic social"
"services."
"What will we do to those who violate this mandate?"
"Do we summon them to an international criminal tribunal?"
"Under what charges: contempt for democratic decisions;"
"State terrorism; war Crimes; genocide?"
"It would seem that the disturbing words of the writer"
"and humanist John Milton are true:"
"They who have put out the people?s eyes, reproach"
"them of their blindness."
"I say this because the United States Government has"
"ignored all those complaints in the same way as it has"
"drafted lists of presumed violators."
"In a blatant challenge to the international community,"
"the advocates of open markets and the end of ideologies"
"have taken additional and distinctly extraterritorial actions"
"aimed at reinforcing their blockade. I ask the interpreters to"
"be accurate: I mean blockade and not embargo. It is an"
"economic, trade and financial blockade against Cuba that"
"ignores six consecutive calls by the Assembly to put an end"
"to what has rightly been fairly described as the grossest,"
"most serious and systematic violation of the human rights"
"of a whole people."
"On the contrary, those concerned insist on continuing"
"their failed policy, one of whose instruments was"
"exemplarily dismantled by the international community at"
"the fifty-fourth session of the Commission on Human"
"Rights, when it was decided to put an end to the"
"extraordinary procedure on the so-called situation of Cuba"
"and to get rid of the Special Rapporteur. That was a"
"conscious and considered decision, the ultimate assertion of"
"the growing rejection of a politicized resolution that should"
"never have existed in the first place. It was recognition of"
"the truth and a result of the weariness caused by calumny"
"and lies. It was also the way out of a discriminatory,"
"unwarranted and selective exercise targeted on Cuba that"
"consecrated the imperial will to dictate a kind of"
"international law where the powerful and wealthy judge"
"and we, the poor, are doomed to sit on the defendants?"
"bench."
"Nevertheless, we have amassed enough evidence to"
"indicate that a new vendetta is under way. The failed"
"attempts last July in the Economic and Social Council to"
"imposed a so-called joint statement on the presumed"
"human rights situation in Cuba, and subsequent initiatives"
"to engage high United Nations authorities or particular"
"countries in the preposterous and unsuccessful task of the"
"late Special Rapporteur, foreshadow new and unwarranted"
"conflicts that will again divert the Organization from its"
"main concerns."
"I am referring to documents and guidelines such as"
"these, which I could quote and which will be made"
"available to the press, and which have been forwarded to"
"almost all participants in this room by senior officials of"
"a Government that, in keeping with its imperial"
"philosophy, seems to think that they are entitled to speak"
"but not required to listen humbly and respectfully. I quote"
"from the document:"
"Multilateral efforts suffered a serious setback last"
"April when the United Nations Commission on"
"Human Rights voted against a resolution on Cuba by"
"a margin of 19 to 16, with 18 abstentions."
"Maintaining international focus on the human rights"
"situation in Cuba is a high priority for Secretary of"
"State Albright. She has asked me to speak with you"
"our interest in pursuing a joint statement on Cuba at"
"ECOSOC."
"We feel that the most effective approach would be"
"a joint statement of like-minded countries. The"
"statement could call on the United Nations system to"
"keep the human rights situation in Cuba under"
"review. One mechanism for doing so could be the"
"establishment in Havana of an office of the United"
"Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights."
"The general thrust is clear."
"We take full responsibility in asserting that"
"reconsidering the issue will only mean opening yet"
"another, even more unacceptable chapter in the political"
"manipulation of human rights mechanisms. This would be"
"38"
NA
NA
"detrimental to the authority of the body or the relevant"
"office, because our country would not accept the"
"reimposition of any new procedure or discriminatory"
"treatment."
"Everything we do in Cuba, whether some like it or"
"not, whether agreed or not, is done for the sake of the"
"human being. We are proud of our reality and, as we have"
"said before, we do not believe it is perfect. We do not want"
"it to be perfect. We do not want to be bored with"
"perfection. We do not take it as an endorsement or export"
"it as a model, and above all we do not impose it on anyone,"
"so no one will attempt to impose their reality on us."
"We do not use our agreements or disagreements with"
"others, including our differences with the very harsh,"
"silenced reality of our accusers, to humiliate or condemn"
"anyone. We prefer to discuss them by means of civilized"
"dialogue, which we are at all times prepared to engage in,"
"believing that what really matters is cooperation and not the"
"imposition of a dubious convergence in positions."
"Cuba is among the few Members of this Organization"
"that has consistently submitted its reports systematically and"
"in good time to the treaty bodies to which it belongs."
"Evidence abounds of the transparency and sincerity of our"
"actions and of the strength with which we uphold"
"impartiality and objectivity in the Committees on the"
"Elimination of Discrimination against Women, the"
"Committee against Torture, the Committee on the Rights of"
"the Child and the Committee on the Elimination of Racial"
"Discrimination."
"We have similar credentials in our systematic"
"cooperation with the various mechanisms of the"
"Commission on Human Rights and with the Office of the"
"High Commissioner, since its inception. Let me mention"
"also our growing bilateral cooperation in this area with"
"various States in an atmosphere of respect and on an equal"
"footing, each one of us with our respective virtues and"
"flaws."
"For these reasons, while we denounce these new"
"intentions and forewarn the Assembly against unwarranted,"
"diversionist and fruitless exercises, we reiterate Cuba?s"
"unrestricted willingness and preparedness for dialogue and"
"for multilateral and bilateral cooperation with all States."
"No imposed solution can settle a problem. The"
"international community should never allow a cause as"
"noble and compelling as that of human rights to be held"
"hostage to petty political interests."
"Cuba is confident that dialogue will prevail over"
"confrontation and recalls, as a token of its goodwill, the"
"invitations it has extended to the thematic rapporteurs on"
"violence against women, on children, on mercenary"
"practices and on other matters, so they can become"
"acquainted with the realities of a socialism that has never"
"needed to proclaim its intrinsic humanity. Unfortunately,"
"however, on occasions when it has broadly disseminated"
"the required information with transparency, that"
"information has at times been manipulated and used to"
"serve the interests and objectives of our aggressors."
"So long as Cuban children suffering from leukemia"
"are denied access to Oncaspar and L-Spar to prolong their"
"lives; so long as Cuban AIDS patients are denied access"
"to AZT; so long as urgently needed purchases of"
"respirators for newborn babies in intensive care units are"
"hampered; so long as it is forbidden to sell to Cuba a"
"single pound of metrotrexate to test important medicines"
"against cancer; so long as a 33 per cent drop in the"
"population?s daily consumption of calories and a 39 per"
"cent drop in the consumption of proteins is artificially and"
"intentionally provoked by a ban on food exports, by"
"excessive freight costs and prices, and by the harassment"
"of suppliers; so long as attempts are made to starve us to"
"death and to kill us with diseases, while speculation and"
"manipulation is under way with feigned official aid"
"presented as a humanitarian gesture, which we refuse"
"because we believe it to be insincere; as long as letters"
"such as the one I am holding  I feel compelled to show"
"them, and they will be made available to all "
"unilaterally justify confusing, contradictory and"
"threatening understandings aimed at globalizing"
"extraterritorial laws, it would be absolutely outrageous,"
"immoral and even shameful to question Cuba?s just and"
"sovereign limits, legitimized by the 1948 Universal"
"Declaration itself, that our Government and people are"
"forced to place on those who, wielding human rights in"
"the abstract, defame their homeland, disown their people,"
"foster division and serve the interests of a foreign Power."
"I quote from the letter from Mrs. Albright to Senator"
"Jesse Helms:"
"The understanding is an important step"
"forward in our ongoing efforts to encourage greater"
"respect for property rights of United States citizens"
"abroad."
"We expect the full cooperation of the"
"Europeans in carrying out the understanding."
"39"
NA
NA
"It is important that we not miss this unique and"
"historic opportunity to advance the goals of the"
"Libertad Act and to establish broad new protections"
"for the property rights of United States citizens in"
"Cuba and throughout the world."
"Certainly, this is worthy of note. What Mrs. Albright"
"calls the Libertad Act in her letter is nothing but the"
"regrettably notorious Act that has often been repudiated by"
"the international community: the Helms-Burton Act. I am"
"clarifying this because I know that for most of the members"
"of this Assembly it would be difficult to equate a juridical"
"instrument of this type with a lofty but often misused word"
"such as freedom."
"A self-respecting nation does not allow its dignity and"
"intelligence to be offended. A people that has fought and"
"endured such a barbaric onslaught will never be brought to"
"its knees. A people that exists today because it has learned"
"to overcome its difficulties will never be shattered, let alone"
"convinced of the urgency of any cause besides the revolt of"
"the united."
"We the poor are so many and our poverty so great that"
"if we unite, the unity of our poverty will become our"
"greatest asset. This will be our wealth, and we have more"
"than enough poverty to become immensely rich."
"Let us set aside our differences. Let us carry on our"
"shoulders the salvation of humanity. Let us gather those"
"who, resourceful and wealthy though they may be, can still"
"feel in their hearts the urgent call for survival in the global"
"era."
"Let the world recognize our sincere vote as poor"
"people, and if there is no other choice, let it hear our veto"
"as well. Let us all unite in the struggle. As President Fidel"
"Castro has said, Cuba will never tire of calling for this. Let"
"us unite and globalize our opposition to every boastful act"
"of hegemony."
"Let us globalize respect for our human condition,"
"which is the first and foremost right to be claimed. Let us"
"globalize the efforts to save from ecological catastrophe a"
"planet that has been ruined by neoliberalism and"
"consumerism."
"Let us globalize ethics, culture and the spirituality of"
"peoples in their immense and wonderful diversity, so that"
"each of us can drink from his own spring and we can pour"
"our clearest waters into the great river of human thought."
"Let us globalize, without excluding anyone, science,"
"technology, development and cooperation between"
"nations. Let the rich share their wealth. Let the poor"
"grow, the illiterate learn to read and write, the sick heal."
"Let the healthy remain healthy and the hungry have food."
"Let us globalize generosity and eradicate plundering,"
"selfishness and greed."
"Let us globalize respect for the rights of others as a"
"guarantee of peace for all races, ethnicities and religions,"
"so that we may bid farewell to arms."
"Let us globalize human freedom as the most sacred"
"trait of our species. Let this be a responsible freedom,"
"with peace and independence, dignity and sovereignty,"
"without humiliation or conditions, without alterations or"
"renunciations  a freedom emerging from the rebellion"
"of human beings against a world that no longer meets"
"their needs and that they are determined to change, as set"
"out in the preamble and article 28 of the Universal"
"Declaration of Human Rights. We do not want these"
"freedoms ever to be politicized; we want them to remain"
"entirely human."
"In a few days it will be 40 years since the dawn of"
"Cuba's knowledge of that freedom that re-established the"
"rights of Cubans and enshrined our humanity, because"
"that freedom was born in our own breasts and nourished"
"by the blood, sweat, efforts and sacrifices of so many"
"generations."
"That freedom is still alive today, shielded by an all-"
"enduring unity. It encourages our rebelliousness in the"
"face of a world that deserves to be and can be changed"
"for the sake of all mankind. As the book of Ecclesiastes"
"commands:"
"To every thing there is a season, and a time to"
"every purpose under the heaven. (The Holy Bible,"
"Ecclesiastes 3:1)"
"Now is the time and the exact hour that we must act."
NA
NA
NA
"In this"
"Hall today are representatives of wealthy countries and also"
"representatives of poor countries, who constitute the"
"majority. There are ministers and ambassadors from"
"countries whose per capita gross domestic product is"
"$25,000 dollars, and others who represent countries where"
"that figure is a mere $300 dollars. Moreover, that difference"
"grows year by year."
"There are representatives of countries that appear to"
"have a promising future. These are the countries with only"
"20 per cent of the world's population, but 86 per cent of its"
"gross domestic product, 82 per cent of world export"
"markets, 68 per cent of direct foreign investment, and 74"
"per cent of all of the telephone lines on the planet."
"What can we say about the future of those whom we"
"represent here who account for 80 per cent of the world's"
"population, living in countries that were colonized and"
"plundered for centuries to increase the wealth of the former"
"metropolises? It is true that time has passed, and that our"
"history is what it is and not what we might have wished it"
"to be. But must we simply resign ourselves to a future that"
"is essentially the same?"
"Can we feel reassured knowing that the wealth of the"
"three richest people in the world is greater than the"
"combined gross domestic product of the 48 least developed"
"countries, with their population of 600 million, whose"
"representatives are present in this hall today demanding"
"justice?"
"In this hall today we have representatives of countries"
"where most of the population  which is hardly growing"
"at all  are guaranteed decent living standards and where"
"some live in opulence. These populations spend $12 billion"
"on perfume and $17 billion on pet food every year."
"But there is a majority represented in this hall that has"
"no reason to feel optimistic. This majority comprises 900"
"million people who go hungry and 1.3 billion who live in"
"poverty. My brothers and sisters here today representing"
"Africa have no reason to feel reassured. They know that"
"today there are 23 million people on their continent who are"
"HIV-positive. They also know that it costs $12,000 to treat"
"just one person infected with the virus, which means that it"
"would take almost $300 billion a year for all the AIDS"
"patients in Africa to receive the same treatment currently"
"provided to AIDS sufferers in wealthy countries."
"Could my colleagues representing 6 billion of the"
"planet's inhabitants  to which a further 80 million are"
"added every year, almost all of them in the Third"
"World  really think that a situation like this could"
"continue unchanged into the next century?"
"How can any of us prevent the continued growth in"
"the number of emigrants from poor nations who flock to"
"the wealthy countries in pursuit of a dream, while the"
"current world order does not allow them to find the"
"conditions for a decent life in their own countries?"
"A small number of representatives in this hall"
"represent countries that have no need to fear a military"
"threat in the coming century. Some even have nuclear"
"weapons, belong to a powerful alliance or build up their"
"armies every year with better, more sophisticated"
"weapons. They are the ones who view the rest of the"
"world as merely the Euro-Atlantic periphery of the North"
"Atlantic Treaty Organization, and therefore they will"
"never have to endure the devastation of massive bombings"
"by invisible attackers acting under what has come to be"
"known as a new strategic concept of that aggressive"
"military organization."
"But the vast majority of those of us gathered here"
"today do not enjoy such security. We are troubled to see"
"that in a world dominated by a single military and"
"technological Power, we are today less safe than during"
"the difficult years of the cold war."
"If one day we wished to call upon the Security"
"Council to discuss a situation that we viewed as a threat"
"to one of our poor countries, does the Assembly think"
"that we would be heard? I fear that recent examples have"
"proved otherwise."
"Why is there no discussion in the Assembly about"
"general and complete disarmament, including nuclear"
"disarmament? Why is the issue limited to controlling"
"small arms, which are necessary in a case such as that of"
"Cuba  a country attacked and under blockade for 40"
"years? Why is there no mention of the deadly laser-"
"guided bombs, the depleted uranium missiles, or the"
"cluster or graphite bombs used indiscriminately by the"
"United States in bombing the civilian populations in"
"Kosovo?"
"Could anyone claim that our children will inherit a"
"just and secure world if we do not change the unfair and"
"unequal standards that are currently used to measure"
"issues of such key importance to our collective security?"
"14"
NA
NA
"Must we also accept the imposition of free market"
"rules and the sacred law of supply and demand in the brutal"
"commerce of death? What is stopping the international"
"community from attempting, in a rational and coordinated"
"manner, to redirect a large part of the $780 billion currently"
"used for military expenditures to promoting development in"
"the Third World countries?"
"That is why we so passionately defend respect for the"
"principles of international law, which have guided relations"
"among all of the world's countries for more than half a"
"century. What would we have left to defend ourselves in"
"the future if we poor countries were no longer able to rely"
"on such principles as respect for sovereignty and self-"
"determination, the sovereign equality of all States and non-"
"interference in the internal affairs of other nations? How"
"could we call on the international community to protest a"
"threat against one of our countries if those principles, which"
"are today systematically and flagrantly violated, were to be"
"struck from the Charter of the United Nations?"
"In a unipolar world, attempts to impose notions such"
"as the limitation of sovereignty, and humanitarian"
"intervention, do not advance international security: they"
"pose a threat to the countries of the Third World, which"
"have neither powerful armies nor nuclear weapons. Such"
"attempts must therefore be brought to an end: they violate"
"the letter and the spirit of the Charter."
"At the same time, we believe it is necessary to defend"
"the United Nations, now more than ever. We defend the"
"need for its existence as much as we do the need to"
"democratize it. The challenge facing us is that of reforming"
"the United Nations so that it serves the interests of all"
"nations equally. We defend both the need for the existence"
"of the Security Council and the need to make it more"
"inclusive, democratic and transparent. Why not expand the"
"number of permanent members? Why could not the Council"
"include at least two or three new permanent members from"
"Latin America, Africa and Asia? The membership now is"
"three times the number of countries which founded the"
"United Nations in San Francisco in 1945, and the vast"
"majority of them  the Third World countries  do not"
"have a single permanent member to represent them."
"However, we do not defend the right of veto. We do"
"not believe that anyone should have it. But if it is not"
"possible to eliminate it, we should at least attempt to ensure"
"that this prerogative is more evenly shared, and provide that"
"all new permanent members have the right of veto. Why,"
"if the right of veto cannot be eliminated now, is it not"
"restricted to votes on proposed measures under Chapter VII"
"of the Charter? As things stand at present, a single"
"country can override the will of all the other United"
"Nations Members. And there is one country that has"
"exercised its unlimited right to veto an infinite number of"
"times: the United States. This is untenable."
"At the United Nations, we must curb the attempt to"
"impose a single way of thinking on us by trying to make"
"us believe that it is our way, or that it is superior to our"
"rich diversity of cultures and models, or that it is more"
"advanced and modern than our multiplicity of identities."
"To survive, we must resist being treated as merely the"
"Euro-Atlantic periphery and oppose having labelled as"
"global threats the problems that we face as consequences"
"of colonialism: underdevelopment; the consumerism of"
"the wealthy countries; and even the results of their recent"
"or current policies."
"Here in this Hall are the representatives of the Group"
"of 7, whose countries have 685 million inhabitants and"
"economies with a combined gross domestic product of"
"$20 trillion. Also present are the rest of us, who represent"
"the remaining 181 countries, with more than 5 billion"
"inhabitants and economies with a combined gross"
"domestic product of barely $10 trillion. Yes, we are all"
"equal under the Charter of the United Nations, but not in"
"real life."
"While rich countries have the transnational"
"corporations that control over one third of all of the"
"world's exports, we poor countries have the asphyxiating"
"burden of external debt, which has risen to the level of $2"
"trillion and continues to grow, devouring almost 25 per"
"cent of our export earnings just to service our debt. How"
"can development be possible under these conditions?"
"While we speak insistently in this Hall of the need for a"
"new international financial architecture, our countries are"
"being buffeted by the scourge of a system that allows the"
"daily occurrence of speculative transactions worth $3"
"trillion. That structure cannot be fixed; it is not a matter"
"of remodelling it, but rather of demolishing it and"
"rebuilding it anew."
"Can anyone explain the logic of this phantom"
"economy that produces nothing and is sustained by"
"buying and selling things that do not exist? Should we or"
"should we not demolish this chaotic financial system and"
"build upon its ruins a system that favours production,"
"takes differences into account and stops forcing our"
"battered economies to endlessly pursue the impossible"
"illusion of increasing financial reserves? Sooner or later,"
"those reserves evaporate in the course of the desperate"
"15"
NA
NA
"and unfair battle to defend our currencies from the strong"
"and highly favoured currency of the anachronistic Bretton"
"Woods accord, the sacrosanct dollar."
"When the history of these years is written, it will be"
"very difficult to explain how a single country was able to"
"accumulate so many privileges and such absolute power."
"What will the economists of the next century say when they"
"realize that the United States was able to live with a current"
"account deficit that is already about $300 billion without"
"the International Monetary Fund (IMF) having imposed"
"even one of the severe adjustment programmes that are"
"impoverishing the countries of the third world?"
"Who will explain the fact that, thanks to the privilege"
"of having the world's reserve currency, the Americans, save"
"less and spend more than anyone else in the world? Will"
"anyone tell them that in 1998 they were able to import"
"$124 billion worth of cars and spend $8 billion in"
"cosmetics, thanks in good measure to the fact that they"
"controlled 17.8 per cent of the votes of the International"
"Monetary Fund, which gives them a virtual right of veto?"
"How can we explain to the people of Tanzania, for"
"example, that while all of this was happening they had to"
"spend nine times as much on servicing the foreign debt"
"than on primary health care, and four times as much as on"
"primary education?"
"The current international economic system is not only"
"profoundly unjust, but also absolutely unsustainable. An"
"economic system that destroys the environment cannot be"
"sustained. The world's supply of drinking water today is 60"
"per cent of what it was in 1970; and today there are 2.3"
"billion more human beings on the planet than there were"
"back then. The same is happening with our forests. Could"
"anyone in this Hall defend the proposition that such a pace"
"of destruction can go on indefinitely?"
"An economic system based on the irrational"
"consumption patterns of the rich countries, which are later"
"exported to our own countries through the mass media,"
"cannot be sustained. Why not accept that it is possible to"
"provide a decent life to all the people of the planet with the"
"resources that are within our reach and the degree of"
"technological development we have achieved, through a"
"rational and solidarity-based exploitation of all this"
"potential?"
"How will they explain that the member countries of"
"the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and"
"Development, whose representatives I now address with all"
"due respect, have fallen so far behind as to provide less"
"than one third of their 1970 commitment to dedicate a"
"minimum of 0.7 per cent of their gross national product"
"to official development assistance?"
"I asked a member of our delegation, a Deputy in our"
"National Assembly and a professed Christian, what the"
"Bible would say about such an unjust economic order. He"
"responded quickly with the words of a Prophet from the"
"Holy Book:"
"Woe unto them that decree unrighteous"
"decrees, and that write grievousness which they have"
"prescribed;"
"To turn aside the needy from judgment, and to take"
"away the right from the poor of my people, that"
"widows may be their prey, and that they may rob"
"the fatherless!"
"And what will ye do in the day of visitation, and in"
"the desolation which shall come from afar? to whom"
"will ye flee for help? and where will ye leave your"
"glory? (The Holy Bible, Isaiah 10: 1-3)"
"I know that many people in this Hall share these"
"concerns, and I also know that almost all of us are asking"
"ourselves the same question. Can the World Trade"
"Organization (WTO) be spared from becoming a fiefdom"
"of the United States and its allies, as the International"
"Monetary Fund and the World Bank are today? Will we"
"truly succeed in making the World Trade Organization the"
"democratic and transparent forum we need, or will the"
"powerful interests of a minority be imposed to the"
"detriment of the silent majority, which is too divided,"
"confused and unsuspecting to understand the dangers of"
"a cold and dogmatic liberalization of world trade? Will"
"they remember that the vast majority of third world"
"countries, dependent on the export of a single agricultural"
"product or a few spices, will be wiped out of world trade"
"and crushed by the fierce competition of a few"
"transnational corporations? Should we or should we not"
"take these realities into account and accept the need to"
"protect the interests of the underdeveloped countries, if"
"only to guarantee their very survival?"
"How will we poor countries be able to compete if"
"our professionals leave for the wealthy nations in pursuit"
"of better opportunities; if we are not even allowed to keep"
"our athletes and we must watch with sorrow as they"
"compete under another country's flag? How will we poor"
"nations be able to compete economically if the 10 most"
"16"
NA
NA
"developed countries control 95 per cent of the patents"
"issued in the last 20 years, and intellectual property, far"
"from being liberalized, is ever more closely protected?"
"Talking to us poor countries about trade through the"
"Internet is almost a joke, when we know that 91 per cent of"
"Internet users live in the member countries of the"
"Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development."
"Will we ever see a change in the current situation, in which"
"there are over 600 telephone lines for every 1,000 people"
"in the United States, Sweden and Switzerland, yet only 1"
"telephone per 1,000 people in Cambodia, Chad and"
"Afghanistan?"
"As part of this tragic depiction of the situation facing"
"the vast majority of countries in the world, I feel bound to"
"talk about my own country. The situation in Cuba is an"
"eloquent example, if ever there was one, of what should not"
"be done in terms of relations between powerful and small"
"nations."
"For more than 40 years, my people have been"
"subjected to a brutal policy of hostility and all kinds of"
"aggression imposed by the United States. High-level"
"authorities in that country have openly admitted that this"
"policy is aimed at destroying the political and economic"
"system built by the Cuban people of their own free will and"
"at restoring the neo-colonial power that the United States"
"held over Cuba and definitively lost on 1 January 1959,"
"with the triumph of the Cuban revolution."
"As has been made clear by events, public statements"
"by American spokespersons and by declassified secret"
"United States documents, this policy of aggression has been"
"carried out through means that have ranged from political"
"and diplomatic measures, propaganda campaigns, espionage"
"and subversion, and fostering defection and illegal"
"emigration, to acts of terrorism, sabotage and biological"
"warfare. This policy has also included the organization and"
"support of armed groups; air and naval raids against our"
"territory; the hatching of over 600 plots to assassinate the"
"leader of our revolution; a military invasion by a mercenary"
"army; the most serious threat ever of a global nuclear"
"conflict, in October 1962; and finally, a brutal commercial"
"and financial blockade and a ferocious economic war"
"against my country that have now lasted 40 years."
"Let me set aside the economic aspects of this"
"aggression against Cuba and deal solely with the physical"
"aggression and acts of war carried out by the United States"
"Government. Recently Cuban social organizations, on"
"behalf of the entire population of Cuba, filed a civil lawsuit"
"against the United States Administration claiming"
"reparation and compensation for loss and damages"
"resulting from the deaths of 3,478 Cuban citizens and for"
"a further 2,099 survivors who have been left disabled as"
"a consequence of the covert plots and the dirty war"
"waged by the United States. The suit demands that the"
"United States Government, which is responsible for these"
"human losses and injuries, be sentenced to pay a total of"
"$181.1 billion in reparation as a minimum symbolic"
"compensation for the loss of something that is clearly"
"irreplaceable and priceless: the lives and physical well-"
"being of the more than 5,500 Cuban citizens who have"
"been victims of the United States' obsessive policy against"
"Cuba."
"At the open and public trial, televised nationwide, at"
"which this claim was considered, it was clearly proved"
"that the United States Government was directly"
"responsible for this continued aggression, and that the"
"undeclared war against Cuba had constituted an official"
"State policy enforced by no fewer than nine successive"
"United States Administrations over the last 40 years."
"What will they tell their grandchildren, these leaders,"
"officials and agents of the United States Government"
"whose consciences are weighed down by the guilt of"
"planning and carrying out this dirty war against Cuba"
"and by the moral burden of responsibility for the death of"
"thousands of Cubans?"
"Can we possibly allow an international system to"
"continue into the next century that accords total impunity"
"for monstrous actions such as these, which have been"
"systematically and flagrantly perpetrated by a major"
"Power?"
"The ferocious economic blockade that extends to"
"every facet of our country's foreign trade and financial"
"relations merits particular attention. This blockade, which"
"has lasted over 40 years, began to develop before the"
"triumph of the revolution. A secret United States"
"document, declassified in 1991, reveals that on 23"
"December 1958, at a National Security Council meeting"
"attended by President Dwight Eisenhower at which the"
"situation in Cuba was discussed, the then-Director of the"
"Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Allen Dulles,"
"categorically stated: We must prevent a Castro victory."
"Three days later, on 26 December, President"
"Eisenhower instructed the CIA that he did not wish the"
"specifics of covert operations against Cuba to be"
"17"
NA
NA
"presented to the National Security Council. Everything had"
"to be kept strictly secret."
"The sudden and overwhelming triumph of the"
"revolutionary forces six days later did not give them time"
"to prevent a Castro victory. The first United States assault"
"on the national economy took place on 1 January 1959,"
"when those who had looted the public treasury fled for the"
"United States, together with the perpetrators of the worst"
"massacres and abuses against the Cuban people."
"Five weeks after the triumph of the revolution,"
"economist Felipe Pazos, a professional man  well known"
"and respected in United States Government circles  who"
"had been appointed by the revolutionary Government to"
"take over the management of the Cuban National Bank,"
"announced on 6 February that the former regime had"
"embezzled or seized $424 million from the gold and dollar"
"reserves that backed the Cuban peso. The New York Times"
"subsequently corroborated the report's claim concerning the"
"theft of the funds, which constituted the country's only"
"reserves."
"The spoils of this colossal theft ended up in United"
"States banks. Not a dime was returned to Cuba. The"
"National Bank immediately requested a modest quantity of"
"funds to deal with this highly critical situation. That request"
"was turned down."
"The Agrarian Reform Act, enacted on 17 May 1959,"
"was aimed at providing food for the vast majority of our"
"undernourished people and direct or indirect employment"
"for the large percentage of the population that was then"
"unemployed. It was enacted when the word socialism had"
"not yet been spoken in Cuba; however, it provoked an"
"extreme reaction in the United States, whose companies"
"owned much of the best and most fertile land in Cuba."
"Cuba's willingness, stipulated in the Act itself, to provide"
"the owners with deferred compensation paid out in"
"reasonable and workable instalments was met with an"
"immediate demand from the United States Government for"
"prompt, effective and full cash compensation. There was"
"nothing in the public coffers with which to meet this"
"demand."
"A month later, on 24 June, at a meeting called by the"
"State Department to consider options for action against"
"Cuba, the view was put forth that the United States should"
"take a very strong stance forthwith against the Act and its"
"implementation, and that the best way to achieve the"
"necessary results was through economic pressure. The"
"elimination of the Cuban sugar cane quota from the United"
"States market was proposed. According to a declassified"
"document, this would cause the sugar industry to suffer"
"an abrupt and immediate decline, causing widespread"
"higher unemployment; the large numbers of people"
"thereby forced out of work would begin to go hungry. At"
"that same meeting, Secretary of State Herter explicitly"
"described these proposals as measures of economic"
"warfare."
"In a memorandum dated 6 April 1960, Mr. L. D."
"Mallory, a senior State Department official, stated that:"
"The only foreseeable means of alienating internal"
"support is through disenchantment and disaffection"
"based on economic dissatisfaction and hardship ..."
"every possible means should be undertaken promptly"
"to weaken the economic life of Cuba."
"He suggested taking:"
"... a line of action which ... makes the greatest"
"inroads in denying money and supplies to Cuba, to"
"decrease monetary and real wages, to bring about"
"hunger, desperation and the overthrow of the"
"Government."
"On 6 July of that same year, the United States"
"adopted one of the measures proposed: the elimination of"
"the Cuban sugar quota. Never again would the United"
"States buy a single pound of sugar from Cuba. A market"
"that was established over the course of more than 100"
"years between the United States and Cuba, with Cuba"
"guaranteeing the supply of this essential food product to"
"the United States and its allies during the first half of the"
"century, including during the two World Wars from which"
"the United States emerged as the wealthiest, most"
"powerful nation in the world, was wiped out in a second,"
"dealing a cruel blow to the country's major source of"
"employment and wealth and depriving it of essential"
"funds for the food, medicine, fuel and raw materials"
"needed to ensure the material survival of our people."
"From that time on, successive economic measures"
"against the Cuban people continued to accumulate until"
"they formed a absolute and total blockade, which went so"
"far as to prevent Cuba from importing even an aspirin"
"produced in the United States, or from exporting to that"
"country a single flower grown in Cuba."
"This complete blockade, cynically referred to in"
"official terminology with the euphemistic and apparently"
"innocuous word embargo, has continued to intensify"
"18"
NA
NA
"over the past 40 years. At the most critical and difficult"
"time in our history, when the Union of Soviet Socialist"
"Republics and the socialist bloc collapsed, and with them"
"the basic markets and sources of supply that the country"
"could count on to withstand the ferocious economic warfare"
"waged against an island only 90 miles from the United"
"States coast, they decided to be yet more unyielding in their"
"approach to Cuba: with truly vulgar and repugnant"
"opportunism, the blockade was intensified to the maximum."
"The so-called Torricelli Act of 1992, among other"
"restrictive measures that greatly affected the maritime"
"transport of food and other commodities between Cuba and"
"the rest of the world, prohibited United States subsidiaries"
"based in third countries from trading with Cuba. This put"
"an end to commercial operations that amounted to over"
"$700 million in imports of foodstuffs and medicines from"
"those countries. This genocidal policy reached even more"
"infamous heights with the Helms-Burton Act, which"
"codified all previous administrative restrictions, expanded"
"and tightened the blockade and established it in perpetuity."
"Subsequent to the passage of that law, and with the"
"aim of tightening even further the blockade against the"
"Cuban people, numerous amendments, introduced into bills"
"of such urgency and length that many United States"
"lawmakers did not even have time to read them, were"
"adopted by show of hands in the United States Congress."
"The Cuban-American terrorist mafia, which is closely"
"linked to the extreme right wing, has achieved its goal of"
"changing the blockade from an order from the executive"
"into rigorous and inflexible legislation. The genocide"
"thereby became institutionalized."
"Following a 1997 study of the consequences of the"
"blockade for health, the American Association for World"
"Health concluded that it violates the most basic"
"international agreements and conventions governing human"
"rights standards, including the United Nations Charter, the"
"Charter of the Organization of American States and the"
"Geneva Convention Relative to the Protection of Civilian"
"Persons in time of War. The Geneva Conventions, to which"
"some 165 countries, including the United States, are parties,"
"require the free passage of all medical supplies and"
"foodstuffs intended for civilian use in time of war. The"
"United States and Cuba are not at war. Indeed, their"
"Governments have even maintain diplomatic representation"
"in Havana and Washington. However, the American"
"Association for World Health has determined that the"
"embargo's restrictions are a deliberate blockade of the"
"Cuban population's access to food and medicine in"
"peacetime."
"In the same report, the American Association for"
"World Health expresses its belief that the United States"
"embargo against Cuba has dramatically harmed the health"
"and nutrition of a large number of ordinary Cuban"
"citizens and concludes that the embargo has significantly"
"increased suffering in Cuba, to the point of causing death."
"For seven consecutive years, the Assembly has"
"consistently adopted a resolution on the need to end the"
"economic blockade imposed by the Government of the"
"United States of America on the Cuban people. The"
"condemnation of that genocidal policy has visibly grown"
"from year to year: year on year between 1992 and 1998,"
"the Cuban resolution against the blockade received 59, 88,"
"101, 117, 137, 143 and 157 votes in favour, while the"
"United States obtained only 3, 4, 2, 3, 3, 3 and 2 votes,"
"including its own. Given the absolute contempt"
"demonstrated by the United States with regard to these"
"General Assembly resolutions, the people of Cuba have"
"decided, independently of the battle taking place in this"
"Assembly, to resort to the legal procedures to which they"
"are entitled in order to demand the appropriate sanctions"
"against those responsible for such acts of genocide."
"Cuba's initiative is based on a solid and irrefutable"
"legal foundation. The Convention on the Prevention and"
"Punishment of the Crime of Genocide was adopted by the"
"Assembly on 9 December 1948 and signed by the"
"Government of the United States of America on 11"
"December 1948 and by the Republic of Cuba on 28"
"December 1949. It entered into force on 12 January 1951"
"and has been signed and ratified by 124 States. Article II"
"of that Convention reads:"
"In the present Convention, genocide means any of"
"the following acts committed with intent to destroy,"
"in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or"
"religious group."
"In subparagraph (c), it immediately goes on to"
"include, among these acts,"
"Deliberately inflicting on the group conditions"
"of life calculated to bring about its physical"
"destruction in whole or in part."
"Article III stipulates that the following acts, among"
"others, shall be punishable: (a) Genocide; ... (d) Attempt"
"to commit genocide; (e) Complicity in genocide. It"
"explicitly states in article IV that"
"19"
NA
NA
"Persons committing genocide or any of the other"
"acts enumerated in article III shall be punished,"
"whether they are constitutionally responsible rulers,"
"public officials or private individuals."
"The Geneva Convention Relative to the Protection of"
"Civilian Persons in Time of War was signed on 12 August"
"1949, and was ratified by the Governments of the United"
"States and Cuba; it entered into force on 21 October 1950."
"A total of 188 States are currently parties to the"
"Convention. Article 23 decrees that"
"Each High Contracting Party shall allow the free"
"passage of all consignments of medical and hospital"
"stores and objects necessary for religious worship"
"intended only for civilians of another High"
"Contracting Party, even if the latter is its adversary. It"
"shall likewise permit the free passage of all"
"consignments of essential foodstuffs, clothing and"
"tonics intended for children under fifteen, expectant"
"mothers and maternity cases."
"The first Protocol Additional to that Convention"
"specifically, precisely and categorically stipulates, in its"
"article 54, entitled Protection of objects indispensable to"
"the survival of the civilian population, that"
"1. Starvation of civilians as a method of warfare"
"is prohibited."
"2. It is prohibited to attack, destroy, remove or"
"render useless objects indispensable to the survival of"
"the civilian population, such as foodstuffs, agricultural"
"areas for the production of foodstuffs, crops, livestock,"
"drinking water installations and supplies and irrigation"
"works, for the specific purpose of denying them for"
"their sustenance value to the civilian population or to"
"the adverse Party, whatever the motive, whether in"
"order to starve out civilians, to cause them to move"
"away, or for any other motive."
"Article VII of the 1948 Convention on genocide states,"
"without room for the slightest doubt, that"
"Persons charged with genocide or any of the"
"other acts enumerated in article III shall be tried by a"
"competent tribunal of the State in the territory of"
"which the act was committed."
"Subparagraph (e) of article III of that Convention"
"stipulates with the same precision that accomplices to"
"genocide shall also be punished."
"As a consequence, the National Assembly of"
"People's Power of the Republic of Cuba declared on 13"
"September 1999: first, that the economic blockade"
"imposed on Cuba by the Government of the United States"
"constitutes an international crime of genocide in"
"accordance with the definition stipulated in the"
"Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the"
"Crime of Genocide, adopted by the General Assembly on"
"9 December 1948; second, that, on the basis of the"
"arguments put forward and of the foregoing statement, it"
"proclaims Cuba's right to demand that such acts be"
"punished; third, that as a result of the grave, systematic"
"and ongoing genocide carried out over the course of 40"
"years against the people of Cuba, and in accordance with"
"international standards, principles, agreements and laws,"
"Cuban courts have the right to try and punish the guilty"
"parties, whether they be present or absent; fourth, that"
"acts of genocide and other war crimes are not subject to"
"any statute of limitations; fifth, that the guilty parties can"
"be punished even with a sentence of life imprisonment;"
"sixth, that criminal responsibility does not exempt the"
"aggressor State from providing material compensation for"
"the human and economic damage it may have caused; and"
"seventh, that it calls on the international community for"
"support in this struggle to defend the most elementary"
"principles of justice, the right to life, peace and the"
"freedom of all peoples."
"Here in this Hall today, as members of the Cuban"
"delegation to the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth"
"session, there are three young Cubans representing our"
"country's university students, secondary-school students,"
"and children and adolescents. They are here on behalf of"
"the social organizations that went before the relevant"
"courts to file the claim against the United States"
"Government, demanding reparations and compensation for"
"the damages and injuries suffered by thousands of people."
"Those same organizations also took the legal initiative of"
"proposing to the National Assembly of People's Power the"
"proclamation I have just cited."
"Here with us as well are three outstanding"
"personalities in Cuban medicine, Deputies in the National"
"Assembly, who have testified before that body on the"
"tragic harm that has resulted from the blockade on"
"medicines imposed against our country. There are also"
"three Christian deputies, whose profound ethical, religious"
"and human convictions led them to support the"
"proclamation made in our National Assembly demanding"
"the trial and punishment of the guilty parties."
"20"
NA
NA
"These individuals are prepared to respond, here in the"
"United States, to any questions posed to them, or to meet"
"with the press, academic institutions, non-governmental"
"organizations, legislators, senators or even any committee"
"of the United States Congress. We are prepared not only to"
"make accusations, but also to engage in debate and prove"
"the facts that support them."
NA
NA
NA
NA
"We are"
"living at a decisive moment in the history of"
"humankind. More than half a century after the creation"
"of the United Nations, on the threshold of a new"
"millennium that was supposed to herald an era of peace"
"among men, solidarity among nations and greater well-"
"being for the poorest people, we are confronted instead"
"by the most serious and complex economic, social,"
"political and environmental crisis in the history of the"
"human race."
"The expectations of peace, stability and"
"cooperation that the end of the cold war triggered"
"throughout the world are far from becoming a reality."
"The emergence of a unipolar world in which a single"
"super-Power is capable of militarily controlling the"
"international scene, far from meaning greater security"
"for our peoples, has ushered in a new stage in which"
"the hegemonism of that sole super-Power prevails "
"direct or covert interventionism under the guise of"
"multilateral actions, insecurity for the small countries,"
"selfishness as a behavioural pattern in international"
"relations and the attempt to disregard the principles of"
"equality among States, national sovereignty, self-"
"determination, non-intervention, the non-threat or the"
"use of force and the settlement of disputes through"
"peaceful means  principles that have constituted the"
"cornerstone of the United Nations."
"We are also living in a world characterized by the"
"exploitation and the horrendous destitution of over l.3"
"billion human beings, who, while suffering on a daily"
"basis and without giving up the hope of a better life for"
"their children, wonder if we will still have sufficient"
"reasons to reaffirm faith in the fundamental rights of"
"man and in the dignity and value of the human person,"
"as proclaimed more than five decades ago by the"
"founders of the United Nations."
"The attempts at imposing by force and under"
"pressure the so-called right of humanitarian"
"intervention are at present the greatest threat to"
"international peace and security. We all know that the"
"small group of developed countries  led by the"
"United States and its allies with powerful forces  that"
"attempt to impose this perilous concept in the"
"discussions and decisions of our Organization, do not"
"have to fear the consequences of recognizing such a"
"right in international relations. They are not, as we are,"
"the Euro-Atlantic rim, defined by the North Atlantic"
"Treaty Organization (NATO) as the probable scene for"
"their acts of aggression, and the new strategic doctrine"
"of this alliance is not aimed at them, but at us, the poor"
"countries."
"Actions geared at fragmenting countries and"
"nations, at recolonizing territories and re-establishing"
"zones of influence must cease. The recent precedent of"
"unleashing deadly wars against defenceless"
"populations, without even consulting the Security"
"Council, is not only a flagrant violation of the Charter,"
"but it is also once again dragging the world into"
"situations like those that once took over 40 million"
"lives in a single war."
"How many other wars against small, poor"
"countries must be waged before we understand the"
"need to respect the Charter and engage in a deep"
"democratization process in international relations?"
"Is it possible that those who now buttress with"
"threatening language their attempts at interfering in the"
"domestic affairs of other countries have fallen for the"
"idea that the serious problems of underdevelopment,"
"the after-effects of colonialism, hunger, disease and the"
"consequences of the constant pillaging of the third"
"world countries  the real cause of current conflicts "
"can be resolved through use of smart bombs?"
"19"
NA
"Is it not really paradoxical that Western"
"Powers  while developing new, ever more"
"sophisticated killing devices  intend to prevent poor"
"countries from using conventional light weaponry that"
"is essential to nations that, like Cuba, live under the"
"permanent threat of military aggression? Enough of"
"this hypocrisy and Pharisaic behaviour. The world will"
"be really safer if total, complete disarmament takes"
"place, including, especially, nuclear disarmament."
"There has to come a day when light weaponry will be"
"eliminated, when other types of deadlier and more"
"dangerous conventional arms  the much more"
"dangerous and deadlier arms owned by a handful of"
"developed countries  must also be disposed of  the"
"sooner the better. Yes, mines must be eliminated, but"
"the threats of aggression against poor countries must be"
"eliminated long before that."
"Will our planet, by any chance, be safer if the"
"United States finally deploys its hallucinating, costly"
"anti-missile defence system, through which that"
"country's rulers deceive their own people by promising"
"them protection against missiles when nobody knows"
"really from where they could be launched?"
"Why does not the United Nations, instead of"
"tamely following the hazardous death game with the"
"Western Powers, focus its attention on the so-much"
"trumpeted yet unfulfilled purpose of setting aside a"
"portion of the nearly US$ 800 billion, currently used on"
"military expenses, to promote development and try to"
"save the victims of the silent war that, year after year,"
"through disease and starvation, kills more than 11"
"million third-world children under 5 years of age?"
"In any case, peace will not be possible if there is"
"no development for the over one hundred third-world"
"countries that are presently observing, as stone guests,"
"the irresponsible squandering of the wealthy, selfish"
"consumer societies that insatiably eat up our children's"
"future. Setting out to halve in 15 years the number of"
"poor people that we now have is undoubtedly a"
"remarkable endeavour, but how will the other half"
"judge our goal if they are doomed to live as indigents"
"all their lives?"
"What has become of the right to development that"
"was once so solemnly proclaimed by this very General"
"Assembly? Don't you think, dear colleagues, that the"
"time has come for us to calmly and firmly set out to"
"rescue the issue of the right to development as a United"
"Nations priority? Isn't it precisely now  when nobody"
"argues anymore about the resounding failure of the"
"neo-liberal policies that the International Monetary"
"Fund and the World Bank imposed on third-world"
"countries with a fundamentalist stubbornness to the"
"benefit of transnational companies  that our peoples,"
"united in a great alliance for the most basic rights, must"
"seize the opportunity to demand that a more"
"outstanding, decisive role in these affairs be played by"
"the United Nations Economic and Social Council and"
"this General Assembly?"
"Why should we continue to allow international"
"cooperation to virtually disappear, just now when it is"
"most needed? Are we entitled to continue discussing,"
"year after year, without any concrete outcome, the right"
"to development, which our people are demanding,"
"while we watch, scattered and disoriented, as the"
"International Monetary Fund and the World Bank"
"continue to strip the Organization of the prerogatives"
"bestowed upon it by the Charter? Those who have"
"imposed such devastating decisions as those leading to"
"the unbridled privatization of the national resources of"
"third world countries and the indiscriminate"
"liberalization of the capital account  thereby"
"facilitating the outflow of the scarce foreign currencies"
"from poor countries that, because of expediency or"
"fear, have not been able to fight for the rights of their"
"peoples  will be held to account by their children and"
"by history."
"The Millennium Summit, which ended with"
"positive results, demonstrated once again that the"
"devastating effects of imposing a neo-liberal model in a"
"globalized world are hitting third world countries"
"particularly hard. The socio-economic situation of such"
"countries  especially those in Africa  is virtually"
"untenable. Likewise, it made it clear that unilateralism"
"and duress have no place in a world in which solidarity"
"and cooperation are the only possible means to achieve"
"salvation for all."
"In the wake of the Summit, no doubts remain:"
"now is the time to act, to adopt concrete measures in"
"order to fight the poverty and underdevelopment"
"currently afflicting the majority of the people of the"
"world. Cuba, a poor country that nonetheless has a"
"large store of human capital, has already started to take"
"action. Deeds, not words, are what we need today."
"Two years ago, we put in place a comprehensive"
"health-care plan under which almost 2,000 Cuban"
"health workers are rendering services, free of charge, in"
"20"
NA
"16 countries of Central America, the Caribbean and"
"sub-Saharan Africa. Now, given the urgent appeal of"
"the African countries, we would like to reiterate the"
"offer that President Fidel Castro made to the United"
"Nations, the World Health Organization and the"
"developed countries during the Millennium Summit to"
"cooperate with Africa in the fight against AIDS and"
"other terrible diseases currently threatening to wipe out"
"an entire continent. Cuba is ready to supply up to 3,000"
"additional Cuban doctors and paramedics for such an"
"undertaking in sub-Saharan Africa. They would also"
"contribute to the training of African health workers in"
"the field. But it is essential for the industrialized"
"countries to do their share and to supply the necessary"
"medicines and materials for the programme. Africa is"
"waiting for us. Cuba stands ready. It is now up to the"
"developed countries."
"Democracy within countries is a goal that is being"
"sought. That is certainly commendable if the diversity"
"of cultures, identities, historical experiences, national"
"realities and political models, and the right of each"
"people to adopt, with complete independence, the"
"system that it deems most appropriate, are properly"
"respected. But is there truly any democracy in"
"international relations at present? Unfortunately there"
"is not."
"In order to attain it, let us put an end to"
"hegemonism, foster development, replace selfishness"
"with cooperation and, finally, respect the purposes and"
"principles of the San Francisco Charter. We must put an"
"end, right now, to the arrogance of the few if we do not"
"want the hopes for a world of justice and peace for all"
"to crumble."
"In order to attain it, let us ensure that the United"
"Nations truly contributes to building solidarity among"
"nations and not to the domination of a few over the"
"overwhelming majority. Let us face up to the attempt"
"of some to put pressure on the United Nations through"
"the non-payment of agreed contributions. Let us reject"
"the use of the United Nations to impose a new colonial"
"order. Let us demand that the Security Council act as"
"the representative of all, not as the servant of one. Let"
"us prevent it from arrogating to itself powers that it"
"does not have, thereby violating the United Nations"
"Charter and operating without due transparency while"
"it decides upon matters of life or death."
"Democratizing the United Nations and its"
"Security Council requires, as indispensable measures,"
"the abolition of the vexing and anachronistic veto"
"privilege; an increase in the number of Council"
"members in proportion to the fourfold increase in the"
"number of States Members of the Organization; the"
"application of the principle of equitable geographical"
"representation to the composition of that body, as with"
"all others; and the fulfilment of its obligation, as"
"enshrined in the Charter but ignored in practice, of"
"reporting to the General Assembly."
"Let us be realistic. Security Council reform is  I"
"will not mince words  as far away today as it ever"
"was. We should recognize that after seven years of"
"fruitless efforts we have managed to agree only that it"
"is necessary to increase the number of members of the"
"Council. At this point, therefore, we believe that we"
"should at least work to effect a proportional increase in"
"the total number of Council members, both permanent"
"and non-permanent, ensuring adequate representation"
"for third world countries, as strongly reiterated by the"
"Millennium Summit. How could the Security Council"
"be expanded without the inclusion of a reasonable"
"number of permanent members from the third world?"
"Forty years ago, on behalf of Cuba, the leader of"
"a triumphant revolution proclaimed from this very"
"rostrum the dreams of hope and social justice for which"
"the Cuban people had struggled for almost a century."
"Most of the States now represented in this Assembly"
"were colonies at that time. There was no talk then  as"
"there is today  about saving Africa, while it was"
"being ruthlessly pillaged. The time had not yet arrived"
"when hundreds of thousands of Cubans would go to"
"African lands to struggle for the real rights of its"
"people, against apartheid, disease and illiteracy."
"That was the moment when the United States"
"Government set out to overthrow the Cuban revolution,"
"which, committed to social justice and true"
"independence for its people, threatened, through its"
"ethics, its morality and its example, the secular"
"domination that the United States had exercised over"
"the entire western hemisphere. That was the moment"
"when the economic, trade and financial blockade was"
"implemented against Cuba  a blockade that, in the"
"course of a harsh 40-year-old economic war, has"
"engendered such shameful pieces of legislation as the"
"Torricelli and Helms-Burton Acts. It has to do with the"
"blockade that this very General Assembly has rejected"
"for eight consecutive years and which is still in force"
"despite worldwide rejection and the obvious"
"disapproval of the people of the United States."
"21"
NA
"In these four decades, our people have resisted"
"acts ranging from political pressures and attempts at"
"diplomatic isolation to the most insidious lying"
"campaigns, from subversion and terrorism to"
"assassination attempts on its main leaders, from"
"biological warfare to the most ruthless blockade and"
"economic war and from the promotion of armed bands"
"to military invasion and the threat of nuclear"
"extermination. Today, on behalf of that same generous"
"and courageous people, we can once again say to our"
"third world brothers and to all those who anywhere in"
"the world defend our right to life and development that"
"revolutionary socialist Cuba will never cease to"
"struggle for everyone's dreams."
"Before delivering my statement, I would like to express"
"our condolences to the United States, the Dominican"
"Republic and other countries represented here that have"
"lost citizens among the many passengers and crew"
"members who perished in yesterdays tragic crash of"
"American Airlines flight 587, and I hereby extend these"
"condolences to their families."
"The war in Afghanistan must be stopped. The"
"Government of the United States must acknowledge"
"that it has made a mistake, and must halt its ineffective,"
"unjustifiable bombing campaign against the Afghan"
"people."
"Judging by its results, it would seem that this war"
"has targeted children, the civilian population and the"
"hospitals and facilities of the International Committee"
"of the Red Cross. As to its methods, no honest voice"
"would be raised in this Hall to defend the endless"
"slaughter, with the most sophisticated weaponry, of a"
"dispossessed, starving, helpless people. As to its"
"doubtful purposes, this war will never be justified from"
"the point of view of ethics and international law. Those"
"responsible for it will one day be judged by history."
"Cuba has opposed this war from the very"
"beginning as an absurd, inefficient method to eradicate"
"terrorism, and reiterates that it can only bring more"
"hatred and ever-increasing dangers of new actions of"
"this kind. No one has the right to continue murdering"
"children, aggravating the humanitarian crisis and"
"visiting impoverishment and death on millions of"
"refugees."
"If the United States obtained a military victory by"
"eliminating all regular and irregular Afghan"
"resistance  something that is not at all easy in"
"practice and extremely costly on a moral level, for it"
"would represent a real genocide without attaining the"
"objective that we must pursue  the world would be"
"farther away than ever from achieving peace, security"
"and the eradication of terrorism."
"Cubas discourse is not founded on ill feelings"
"against the country that has been our most pitiless"
"adversary for over 40 years. It is inspired by a sincere,"
"constructive spirit and a sense of respect for and"
"sympathy towards the people of the United States,"
"which suffered an unjustifiable and atrocious terrorist"
"attack. It is also based on the aspiration for peace and"
"justice for all the peoples of the world."
"What Cuba expresses in this Hall, with full"
"openness, may not be to the liking of those who run the"
"United States today, but it will be understood one day"
"by the American people, whose generosity and sense of"
"justice were proved to the Cuban people when it had"
"the support of 80 percent of the public opinion in this"
"country in our struggle to prevent a kidnapped Cuban"
"child from being torn away from his family and"
"subjected to ludicrous political manipulations and cruel"
"psychological tortures."
"What Cuba is saying from this rostrum, as we"
"well know, is what many people have been saying in"
"the corridors of this building. What international"
"coalition are we talking about? What is its legitimacy"
"based on if it has started by scandalously disregarding"
"the General Assembly? The United States has not"
"fostered international cooperation. It has rather"
"imposed its war on a unilateral basis and has stated in"
"an unprecedented way that whoever does not second"
"them is for terrorism. How long will the precarious"
"support obtained last, since it is not based on"
"harmonized objectives and voluntary agreement, but on"
"the imposition of will through threats and pressures?"
"You can be the strongest, but not necessarily"
"right. You can inspire dread, but not sympathy and"
"respect. Only from genuine international"
"cooperation  in which all countries, big and small,"
"participate with a full understanding of everyones"
"positions, with broadmindedness and tolerance in the"
"21"
NA
"methods used, within the framework of the United"
"Nations and the strict respect for the principles"
"enshrined in its Charter  can a truly effective and"
"lasting alliance emerge to fight terrorism."
"The world was surprised to learn of the official"
"announcement of the United States to the Security"
"Council that it reserved the right to decide on an attack"
"against other countries in the future. What is left of the"
"Charter after this? Can this unprecedented threat by"
"any chance be interpreted as an exercise of the right to"
"legitimate defence, enshrined in the Charter as the right"
"of a State to deal with acts of aggression until the"
"Council adopts the necessary measures, and not as a"
"vulgar excuse to unleash attacks against other"
"countries? Is this announcement, or is it not, the"
"proclamation of the right of a super-Power to trample"
"upon the still fragile and incomplete standards that"
"protect the sovereignty, security and rights of peoples?"
"Cuba calmly and firmly rejects that language. We"
"have not done so out of concern for our own security,"
"because there is no power in the world that can subdue"
"our spirit of independence, freedom and social justice"
"and the courage to defend it at any cost. We did so,"
"because we believe that it is still possible to halt the"
"escalation of a useless, brutal war that threatens to"
"further plunge into hopelessness, insecurity and death"
"the poor peoples of the planet, who are by no means"
"responsible for any act of terrorism, but will be  and"
"already are  the main victims of this senselessness."
"Only under the leadership of the United Nations"
"will we be able to defeat terrorism. Cooperation, and"
"not war, is the way. The coordination of actions, and"
"not the imposition of will, is the method. Our objective"
"must be to obliterate terrorism by removing its root"
"causes  and not the hegemonic assertion of the"
"strength of a super-Power, thus turning us into"
"accomplices to its arrogance and arbitrariness."
"Therefore, Cuba  which has already responded"
"to the Secretary-Generals appeal by deciding to"
"immediately ratify all of the international legal"
"instruments on terrorism  resolutely supports the"
"adoption of a general convention on international"
"terrorism. Of course, this will be possible only in the"
"context of the General Assembly, which  though now"
"completely ignored by those who are promoting the"
"new campaign  has, over the past 10 years, despite"
"the silence and apathy of the Security Council, adopted"
"the principal resolutions and declarations calling for an"
"outright combat against terrorism."
"This will allow us finally to define terrorism with"
"accuracy. We have to prevent attempts from being"
"made by a handful of actors with vested interests to try"
"to label as such the right of nations to fight for their"
"self-determination or against foreign aggression. It"
"must be clearly established that the support, abetting,"
"financing or concealment of terrorist actions by a State"
"is also an act of terrorism."
"Cuba, which is working on its own anti-terrorism"
"law, which should be in effect shortly, unreservedly"
"endorses the proposal to convene an international"
"conference on terrorism under the auspices of the"
"United Nations. This has been a longtime aspiration of"
"the Non-Aligned Movement and should enable us, as a"
"result of open discussions, collective action and"
"respectful and non-discriminatory agreement  and"
"not of threats, terror or force  to find a way to fully"
"eliminate terrorism and its causes. Here I am speaking"
"of terrorism committed not only against the United"
"States but against any other country  even if"
"emanating from the territory of the United States, or"
"tolerated by, or with the complicity of, its authorities,"
"as has been Cubas painful experience for over four"
"decades."
"Only four days ago, the Pakistani media"
"attributed to a character who is well known and very"
"familiar to the United States a statement supposedly"
"made from Afghan territory saying that he has"
"chemical and nuclear weapons and is threatening to use"
"them against the United States if it uses similar"
"weapons against Afghanistan."
"Everybody knows that Afghanistan does not have"
"the slightest ability to produce or launch nuclear or"
"chemical weapons. Only a terrorist organization or"
"leader could come up with the idea of executing an"
"action of this kind using nuclear or chemical weapons."
"Of course, theoretically this could be possible, as a"
"consequence of the irresponsible behaviour of the"
"major nuclear Powers and as a result of the arms trade,"
"corruption and illegal trafficking in all sorts of military"
"technology. Indeed, several of those Powers have acted"
"as accomplices to, and taken part in, the traffic in"
"fissile material and the transfer of nuclear technology,"
"as suits their interests. However, in reality, given the"
"conditions of war in Afghanistan, it would be"
"ridiculous to resort to those threats. To do so would be"
"22"
NA
"to show tremendous political and military ignorance. If"
"one lacked such means, this would be a dangerous"
"bluff, and if one did have them, it would be absolute"
"madness to threaten to use them."
"If the threats contained in the statement published"
"by two Pakistani newspapers are true, they deserve the"
"strongest condemnation, as would the eventual use of"
"such weapons against Afghanistan. That would be a"
"stupid reaction, since, under those circumstances, the"
"only thing that poor, suffering country would have to"
"gain would be a universal condemnation of the use of"
"such weapons. Such threats serve only the interests of"
"the extremist and belligerent forces within the United"
"States, which favour the use of the most sophisticated"
"weapons of mass destruction against the Afghan"
"people. The best weapon for a country that is the"
"victim of aggression is to earn and keep the sympathy"
"of the world, and not to allow anyone to violate the"
"ethical principle that no one has the right to kill"
"children, not even if others are doing it. There is no"
"justice in killing innocent people to avenge the death of"
"other innocents."
"Cuba has stated without hesitation that it is"
"opposed to terrorism and to war. Cuba, which is not"
"under obligation to anyone, will continue to be"
"consistent in its positions. Truth and ethical"
"considerations should prevail above all else."
"The way events have unfolded, the increased"
"level of hatred and the intensification of passions and"
"potential dangers have shown the absolute truth of the"
"assertion that war has never been, is not, and never will"
"be the way to eradicate terrorism."
"The most critical socio-economic crisis ever "
"the result, halfway through the last decade, of the"
"resounding and irreversible failure of neo-liberalism"
"and neo-liberal globalization  has been dramatically"
"aggravated by this war, which was imposed by one side"
"but whose consequences we all have to bear."
"This war must be stopped, not only because its"
"consequences for the Afghan civilian population, but"
"also because of the danger of destabilization in that"
"region. It must be stopped in order not only to save"
"thousands of Americans  mostly young  and"
"thousands of Afghans and other nationals from a"
"senseless death, and not only to preserve international"
"peace and stability, but because this conflict makes it"
"impossible to achieve the objective set by the United"
"Nations 15 years ago: the right to development for all,"
"and an equal opportunity to attain it, and because it"
"renders obsolete the decision made only a year ago to"
"work together in order to eliminate poverty from the"
"face of the Earth."
"Will we be willing to organize a coalition against"
"poverty, famine, ignorance, diseases and the scourge of"
"AIDS that is currently decimating the African"
"continent; a coalition for sustainable development, for"
"the preservation of the environment and against the"
"destruction of the planet?"
"A coalition has been assembled to avenge the"
"grievous and unjustifiable death of over 4,000 innocent"
"people in the United States. Let us come together to"
"seek justice for this great crime  and let us do so"
"without war; let us come together to save from death"
"the hundreds of thousands of poor women who die"
"during childbirth every year; let us come together to"
"save from death the 12 million children who die of"
"preventable diseases before the age of 5 every year in"
"the third world; let us come together to bring medicine"
"for AIDS to the 25 million Africans who today are"
"hopelessly awaiting death; let us come together to"
"invest in development at least a portion of the billions"
"already spent on bombing a country in which almost"
"nothing has been left standing."
"Cuba demands that the General Assembly, the"
"Security Council and the United Nations Organization"
"as a whole take up once again, as top priorities, the"
"debate of these problems on which depend the lives of"
"4.5 billion inhabitants of the third world, whose rights"
"and hopes have also been buried under the rubble of"
"the World Trade Center."
"Cuba reiterates its categorical condemnation of"
"the terrorist acts committed last 11 September. Cuba"
"reiterates its condemnation of terrorism in all its forms"
"and manifestations. Cuba reiterates that it will not"
"allow its territory ever to be used for terrorist acts"
"against the people of the United States or of any other"
"country."
"Cuba has the will to do this because it has"
"suffered terrorist acts for over 40 years; because in"
"Cuba there are still the relatives of the nearly 3,500"
"Cubans killed as a result of acts of aggression and"
"terrorism; and because justice is still demanded by the"
"more than 2,000 Cubans disabled by acts of aggression"
"and terrorism. Some of Cubas sons and daughters who"
"fought against terrorism have become the victims of"
"23"
NA
"cruel persecutions, merciless treatment and unjust and"
"slanderous trials."
"The people of the United States are victims not"
"only of terrorism and panic but also of the lack of"
"truthful information, manipulation and the questionable"
"curbing of their freedoms. Cuba does not nurture any"
"hatred towards the American people, whom we do not"
"hold responsible for our suffering caused by terrorism,"
"acts of aggression and the unfair economic war that we"
"have had to withstand during almost an entire lifetime."
"We share with the American people the aspiration of"
"one day having relations based on respect and"
"cooperation."
"If anyone here takes offence at these words"
"uttered on behalf of a small, generous and courageous"
"people, I apologize. We speak in a straightforward"
"manner. Words exist to uphold the truth, not to conceal"
"it. We rebel against injustice and oppression. We have"
"the moral resolution. We defend our ideals with our"
"lives. Our support can be won for any just cause, but"
"we will not be overcome by force, or allow absurd"
"slogans or shameful campaigns to be forced upon us."
"For many years now, we have proclaimed that for"
"us Cubans, the historical dilemma is: Motherland or"
"Death! From this comes our confidence and sureness"
"that we are and will continue to be a worthy, sovereign"
"and just people."
NA
NA
NA
NA
"A"
"year ago, the General Assembly had to be postponed"
"because of the ruthless crime committed on 11"
"September. There was then a worldwide wave of"
"solidarity towards the people of the United States and,"
"particularly, towards the families of the almost 3,000"
"innocent victims of that unjustifiable terrorist attack."
"The conditions were created for setting up a"
"genuine international alliance under the auspices and"
"leadership of the United Nations, with absolute respect"
"for the purposes and principles enshrined in its Charter."
"Nearly all countries, above and beyond ideological,"
"political, cultural and religious differences, expressed"
"our willingness to collaborate actively with this"
"endeavour of unmistakable common interest."
"However, another vision was imposed. In an"
"unusual fashion, it was stated that whoever did not"
"support the war decided upon by a single country"
"would then be on the side of terrorism. It was even"
"announced to the Security Council that that country"
"reserved the right to launch future attacks on its own"
"against other nations. A unilateral war was then"
"unleashed, whose death toll is still unknown to us and"
"whose most tangible consequence is probably the blow"
"to the credibility of the United Nations and to"
"multilateralism as a means to cope with the complex"
"challenges currently ahead of us."
"What is the outcome today? There are greater"
"feelings of hatred, vengeance and insecurity, which are"
"not helpful in the fight against terrorism. Dangerous"
"xenophobic and discriminatory tendencies threaten the"
"existence of a plural and democratic world. There has"
"been a step backward in the field of public freedoms"
"and civil rights."
"In the meantime, there is a lack of political will"
"by certain powers to rigorously apply, without"
"selectivity and without double standards, the 12"
"existing international legal instruments on terrorism. In"
"addition, no advances have been made in the definition,"
"so indispensable today, of State terrorism."
"For its part, Cuba  a victim of terrorist acts for"
"over four decades, which stated its opinions in the"
"Assembly with poise and firmness and unwaveringly"
"condemned the crime of September 11 and terrorism as"
"such, but which also opposed the war out of ethical"
"considerations and the respect for international law "
"signed and ratified the 12 international conventions to"
"combat terrorism and adopted a national law to fight"
"this scourge. It has cooperated fully with the work of"
"the committee set up for such purposes by the Security"
"Council and, at the bilateral level, it proposed to the"
"United States Government the adoption of a"
"programme to combat terrorism, which was,"
"incomprehensibly, rejected by that Government."
"Until today, and despite the fact that it has not"
"developed and has no intention ever to develop nuclear"
"weapons, Cuba has not been a State party to the Treaty"
"on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, for it is"
"an insufficient and discriminatory instrument allowing"
"the establishment of a club of nuclear powers without"
"any concrete disarmament commitments. However, as a"
"signal of the clear political will of the Cuban"
"Government and its commitment to an effective"
"disarmament process that ensures world peace, our"
"country has decided to adhere to the Treaty on the Non-"
"Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. In doing so, we"
"reaffirm our hope that all nuclear weapons will finally"
"be totally eliminated under strict international"
"verification."
"20"
NA
"In addition, and despite the fact that the only"
"nuclear power in the Americas pursues a policy of"
"hostility towards Cuba that does not rule out the use of"
"force, Cuba will also ratify the Treaty for the"
"Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and"
"the Caribbean, known as the Treaty of Tlatelolco, that"
"was signed by our country in 1995."
"On a day like today, I would like to repeat Cuba's"
"remarks at the last session of the General Assembly:"
"Only under the leadership of the United"
"Nations will we be able to defeat terrorism."
"Cooperation, and not war, is the way. The"
"coordination of actions, and not imposition ... is"
"the method. ..."
"Cuba reiterates its condemnation of"
"terrorism in all of its forms and manifestations."
"Cuba reiterates that it will not allow its territory"
"ever to be used for terrorist acts against the"
"people of the United States or of any other"
"country. (A/56/PV.50, pp. 21 and 22)"
"Why have we not seen the same zeal with which"
"the war in Afghanistan was unleashed in the search for"
"a just and lasting solution for peace in the Middle East?"
"Why have some refrained from uttering even a single"
"word to condemn the aggressions against the territory"
"of Palestine and the crimes against its people? Why has"
"there not been any condemnation of the selective"
"assassinations and the use of the armed forces against"
"the civilian population? Why are there assurances of"
"impunity for the actions of the Israeli army, thus tying"
"the hands of the Security Council? Why have there not"
"been any firm actions to implement the Security"
"Council resolutions that ensure the proclamation of an"
"independent and sovereign Palestinian State, with East"
"Jerusalem as its capital? Why is the only superpower"
"on the planet acting differently from one case to the"
"other? Why is there no end to the suffering of the"
"Palestinian mothers whose children are also murdered,"
"like the innocent people on 11 September? These"
"questions should be answered by those who in this Hall"
"carry upon their shoulders the responsibility for what is"
"currently happening in the occupied Palestinian and"
"Arab territories."
"A new war against Iraq already seems inevitable;"
"an aggravation of the situation of constant aggression"
"that that people has lived in over the last ten years. The"
"buzzword now is pre-emptive war, in open violation"
"of the spirit and the letter of the United Nations"
"Charter."
"Cuba defends principles, not expedience."
"Therefore, although its supporters may feel upset, it"
"emphatically opposes this war. Cuba is not driven by"
"an anti-American spirit, even when its Government"
"maintains and strengthens a 40-year-old blockade"
"against our people. But refraining from telling the truth"
"out of cowardice or political calculation is not"
"characteristic of Cuban revolutionaries. Therefore,"
"Cuba hereby states that it opposes a new military"
"action against Iraq. It does so while recalling that at"
"one point it supported the Security Council resolution"
"asking the Iraqi Government to end the occupation of"
"Kuwait."
"We believe that the development of weapons of"
"mass destruction today would be insane, because the"
"only possible way that we envision for world peace is"
"through general and complete disarmament, including"
"nuclear disarmament, and the rechannelling of the"
"money currently spent on weapons to address the dire"
"socio-economic problems of humankind."
"The Arab countries have been emphatic in their"
"rejection of this war, and most European countries do"
"not approve of it. The international community is"
"increasingly concerned about the announcement of a"
"new war on the basis of unconfirmed allegations and"
"disregarding the obvious reality that Iraq cannot pose a"
"danger to the United States."
"If the United States Government unleashes a new"
"war against Iraq, either by imposing it on the Security"
"Council or by deciding upon it unilaterally in"
"opposition to international public opinion, we will bear"
"witness to the emergence of a century of unilateralism"
"and the forced retirement of the United Nations. It will"
"then seem that the cold war years  with its distant"
"memory of bipolarism, mistakes and contradictions "
"were not as futile and perilous as the era that is now"
"inexorably looming over the world."
"The United Nations has to be saved. Cuba"
"defends the need both for its preservation and for its"
"most profound reform and democratization, but all this"
"must be accomplished through respect for its Charter"
"and not by rewriting it or distorting its purposes and"
"principles. The General Assembly must ultimately be"
"allowed to play the role laid down for it in the Charter."
"The Security Council has to be rescued from the"
"disrepute and doubts that are so rightly weighing it"
"21"
NA
"down, so that it may become a truly representative"
"body. I am talking about the presence of the third world"
"and not about military power as a justification for"
"membership of a democratic body; I am talking about"
"eliminating the veto and other antidemocratic practices"
"from a transparent body; and I am talking about putting"
"an end to the secret conspiracies and to the substantive"
"decisions made in private by a mere few and then"
"imposed on the rest."
"Today, when it is more threatened than ever, Cuba"
"strongly defends the need to preserve multilateralism in"
"international relations. That is why we have witnessed"
"in frustration the disappointing completion of the"
"negotiations for the establishment of the International"
"Criminal Court, which Cuba supported on the"
"understanding that it would be a truly impartial, non-"
"selective, efficient and independent body to"
"complement national justice systems. To use the"
"Security Council as a tool to amend de facto the"
"international treaty that gave birth to the Court, or to"
"impose upon others humiliating bilateral agreements,"
"compelling them to violate their international"
"obligations deriving from that instrument, is not only"
"arrogant, but also irresponsible."
"The International Criminal Court now vaunted is"
"not the body that we need and have fought for, subject"
"as it is to hegemonic political interests and already a"
"potential victim of manipulation, and bound from its"
"inception to the decisions of a permanent member of"
"the Security Council. What real international justice"
"can be expected of a body that lacks a definition of the"
"crime of aggression or that will receive instructions"
"from the Security Council either to call off or to"
"postpone a trial indefinitely at the request of one of its"
"permanent members? Who can guarantee that the Court"
"will not end up becoming an instrument at the service"
"of interventionism and domination by the most"
"powerful countries?"
"Cuba reiterates here today what it expressed at"
"the recent Johannesburg Summit: a reworking of"
"international financial institutions is called for. A"
"legitimate replacement for the International Monetary"
"Fund is called for. It is essential that the work of the"
"World Bank be aimed at supporting the genuine"
"exercise by over 130 third world countries of their right"
"to development. It is essential that the United Nations"
"system be provided with new financial resources to"
"fight poverty, underdevelopment, disease and famine. It"
"is essential that the World Trade Organization be"
"rescued from the interests of a handful of rich and"
"powerful countries and transformed into an instrument"
"at the service of a fair and equitable international"
"trading system."
"The meagre results derived from the Monterrey"
"and Johannesburg conferences and the justified wave"
"of annoyance and uncertainty in their wake once again"
"raise the issue of the lack of political will by the major"
"industrialized Powers to relinquish a portion of their"
"privileges in order to produce a real change in the"
"unfair and unsustainable world order that is currently"
"visiting impoverishment and hopelessness upon two"
"thirds of the planet's population."
"I recognize that Cuba's remarks may not be"
"accepted by some in this Hall. I even understand that"
"they could be interpreted as a tirade against a country"
"in particular. However, that is not the reason. Words"
"must be used to uphold the truth and that is what Cuba"
"has done and will always do. We are a small, noble"
"people that long ago proclaimed that, for all Cubans,"
"motherland is humankind."
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
"Last"
"century bore witness to two terrible world wars, in"
"which over 80 million human beings perished. It later"
"seemed that, due to the lessons learned, the United"
"Nations Organization was born so that war would never"
"again occur. The Charter, adopted in San Francisco"
"nearly 60 years ago, proclaimed the purpose of saving"
"succeeding generations from the scourge of war'."
"However, after that we suffered wars of aggression and"
"conquest, colonial wars, border wars and ethnic wars."
"Many peoples were left with no other choice but war to"
"defend their rights. Moreover, in the last 13 years the"
"scourge of war has taken another 6 million lives."
"Sixty years ago, the world order proclaimed in"
"the United Nations Charter was sustained through the"
"military balance of two super-Powers. A bipolar world"
"was born, which generated clashes, divisions, the cold"
"war and almost a devastating nuclear war. It was not"
"the ideal world, far from it. But since one of those"
"super-Powers has disappeared, the current world is"
"worse and more dangerous."
NA
"Now world order cannot be held together in the"
"spheres of influence of two similar super-Powers or by"
"mutual deterrence. What should it be founded on, then?"
"On the honest and generous recognition by the only"
"super-Power that, far from disturbing it, should"
"contribute to the creation of a peaceful world, with the"
"right to justice and development for all."
"Does the war in Iraq contribute to that objective?"
"No, it does not. Its outcome is just the opposite of the"
"ideal of preserving peace, strengthening the role of the"
"United Nations and enhancing multilateralism and"
"international cooperation. Unfortunately, the truth is"
"that those most able to prevent and remove threats to"
"peace are the ones causing war today."
"Should the Government of the United States"
"recognize this truth that almost everyone in this Hall"
"shares? Yes. What humiliation or harm would there be"
"to the prestige of this great nation? None. The world"
"would recognize that a remedy benefiting all had come"
"about, after the unleashing of a war supported by just a"
"few, either by shortsightedness or by meanness of"
"interests; after it was proven that the pretexts brandished"
"were not true; and after observing the reaction of a people"
"who, as every invaded and occupied people will do,"
"have begun to fight and will continue to fight for"
"respect for their right to self-determination."
"23"
NA
"Therefore, must the occupation in Iraq cease?"
"Yes, and the sooner the better. It is a source of new and"
"more serious problems, not of solutions. Must the"
"Iraqis be left alone to freely establish their own"
"Government and institutions and make decisions on"
"their natural resources? Yes. It is their right, and they"
"will not stop fighting for it."
"Must the Security Council be pressured into"
"adopting decisions that would further undermine it"
"ethically and morally? No. That would eliminate the"
"last possibility to profoundly reform, expand and"
"democratize the Council. The future of the United"
"Nations will be determined today in the outcome of the"
"international crisis generated by the war in Iraq."
"The most critical danger stalking us today is the"
"persistence of a world where what prevails is the law of"
"the jungle, the might of the most powerful, the"
"privileges and extravagance of a handful of countries,"
"and the dangers of aggression, underdevelopment and"
"hopelessness for the vast majority."
"Will a worldwide dictatorship be imposed on our"
"peoples, or will the United Nations and multilateralism"
"be preserved? That is the question. We all agree, I believe,"
"that the role of the United Nations is irrelevant today, or at"
"least is on its way to being so. But some of us say so with"
"concern and would like to strengthen the Organization."
"Others say so with covert satisfaction and encourage"
"the hope of imposing their designs on the world."
"We must speak frankly. What role does the"
"General Assembly play today? In truth, almost none. It"
"is merely a debating forum without any true influence"
"or practical role whatsoever."
"Are international relations governed by the"
"purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter? No."
"Why now, when philosophy, the arts and science are"
"reaching unprecedented levels, is the superiority of"
"some peoples over others once again proclaimed? And"
"why are other peoples, who should be treated as"
"brothers and sisters, referred to as living in the dark"
"corners of the planet or on the Euro-Atlantic periphery"
"of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization? Why do"
"some among us feel entitled to launch a unilateral war,"
"given the fact that in the Charter we proclaimed that"
"military force would only be used to serve the common"
"interest and that collective measures should be taken to"
"preserve peace? Why is there no longer any talk about"
"using peaceful means to settle disputes? Can we"
"believe that everyone is fostering friendship among our"
"nations on the basis of respect for the principle of"
"equality of rights and the self-determination of"
"peoples? Why then has my people had to suffer, and"
"continue to suffer, from over four decades of"
"aggression and economic blockade?"
"The principle of the sovereign equality for all"
"States was established when the Charter was adopted."
"Are we in fact equal? Do all Member States enjoy"
"similar rights? According to the Charter we do, but"
"according to stark reality we do not. Respect for the"
"principle of the sovereign equality of States, which"
"should be the cornerstone of contemporary"
"international relations, will only be established if the"
"most powerful countries accept in real terms that they"
"must respect the rights of others, even if those other"
"countries lack the military might and the economic"
"power to defend those rights. Are the mightiest and"
"most developed countries ready to respect the rights of"
"others, even if doing so might perhaps slightly restrain"
"the privileges they enjoy? I am afraid that they are not."
"Are the principles of the non-use or the threat of use"
"force, non-interference in the internal affairs of States,"
"the peaceful settlement of disputes, and respect for the"
"territorial integrity and independence of States actually"
"in force? According to the language and the spirit of"
"the Charter, they are. But are they really?"
"It is true that a handful of developed countries has"
"benefited from the current situation over the last few"
"decades. But that time is coming to an end. Those"
"countries are also beginning to become victims of the"
"imperial policies of a single super-Power. Should they"
"not take into account, with modesty and common sense,"
"the need to work with the over 130 Third World countries"
"that have been compelled to endure this unjust order and"
"that are ready to attempt to persuade the most powerful"
"country to put aside its arrogance and to comply with"
"its duties as a founder of the United Nations?"
"Cuba believes that we should not, and cannot,"
"relinquish multilateralism; that we should not, and"
"cannot, relinquish the United Nations; and that we"
"cannot, and should not, relinquish the struggle for a"
"world of peace, justice, equality and development for"
"all. Cuba therefore believes that we must achieve three"
"immediate objectives."
"First and foremost, we must put an end to the"
"occupation of Iraq, hand over real control to the United"
"Nations immediately and begin the recovery process to"
"re-establish Iraq's sovereignty and put in place a"
"24"
NA
"legitimate Government decided upon by the Iraqi"
"people. In addition, the scandalous distribution of"
"Iraq's wealth must cease immediately. That will be"
"beneficial for the United States, whose young people"
"are dying in Iraq while waging an unjust and inglorious"
"war. It will be beneficial for Iraq, whose people will be"
"able to turn over a new page in their history. It will be"
"beneficial for the United Nations, which has also been"
"a victim of that war. And it will be beneficial for all of"
"our countries, which have had to suffer international"
"economic recession and an increase insecurity that is"
"threatening us all."
"Secondly, we must address without delay the"
"issue of truly reforming the United Nations and, above"
"all, undertake a far-reaching democratization process."
"The current situation is already untenable, as"
"evidenced, first of all, by the Security Council's"
"shameful inability to prevent the war in Iraq and,"
"secondly, by its demand on the Government of Israel to"
"refrain from expelling or murdering the leader of the"
"Palestinian people   a people who, in accordance with"
"a decision the Council itself took over five decades"
"ago, should long ago have had an independent State."
"That the Government of the United States has exercised"
"its veto power on 26 occasions to protect the crimes of"
"Israel is evidence of the fact that that unjust privilege"
"must be abolished."
"What is needed is a reform that goes back to the"
"roots of the founding of the United Nations; that"
"guarantees effective respect for the Charter; and that"
"re-establishes the mechanisms of collective security"
"and the rule of international law. Reform should also"
"ensure the ability of the United Nations to preserve"
"peace and to lead the fight for general and complete"
"disarmament, including nuclear disarmament, to which"
"many generations have aspired. Reform should also"
"restore to the United Nations its prerogatives to fight"
"for the socio-economic development and the basic"
"rights of all the planet's inhabitants, including the"
"rights to food and life. Doing so is more necessary than"
"ever before, given that neo-liberalism has spectacularly"
"failed and that a new opportunity now exists for"
"establishing a new system of international economic"
"relations. We need to rescue the role of the United"
"Nations and to ensure that all States, large and small,"
"respect the Charter. But we do not need a reform that is"
"going to founder unceremoniously as part of a"
"bureaucratic process of adapting what is left of the"
"United Nations to the interests and whims of a few, rich"
"and mighty countries."
"Finally, we need to return to a discussion of the"
"serious economic and social problems currently"
"affecting the world. We have to make the battle for the"
"right of nearly five billion people to development a"
"priority. The Millennium Assembly committed us to"
"working for very modest and insufficient goals. But"
"everything has now been forgotten, without even a"
"discussion. Seventeen million children under the age of"
"5 will die this year, not as victims of terrorism but as"
"victims of under-nourishment and preventable diseases."
"Will a realistic debate based on solidarity be held in"
"this Hall to discuss how, in line with the Millennium"
"Declaration, to halve by 2015 the number of people,"
"currently over 1.2 billion in number, who are suffering"
"from abject poverty, as well as the number who suffer"
"from hunger, which is more than 800 million? Will"
"there be any discussion about the nearly 900 million"
"illiterate adults? Or will the Millennium Declaration"
"also become a dead letter, as has been the case with the"
"Kyoto Protocol and the decisions of 10 summits held at"
"the level of head of State?"
"Developed countries will provide Third World"
"countries with $53 billion in official development"
"assistance this year. In return, those countries will"
"charge recipients over $350 billion in foreign debt"
"interest; and our foreign debt will have grown by the"
"end of the year. Do creditors by any chance believe that"
"that unjust situation will last forever? Should we, as"
"debtors, resign ourselves to being poor forever? Is that"
"picture of injustice and peril confronted by most"
"countries what the founders of the United Nations"
"really dreamed of? No. Like us, the founders also"
"dreamed that a better world was possible."
"Those are the questions that, with all due respect,"
"we would like some in the Hall to answer for us. I am"
"not talking about Cuba, which, condemned to die for"
"wanting to be free, has had to fight on its own, not only"
"thinking about itself but also about all the peoples of"
"the world."
NA
NA
NA
NA
"Every year at the United Nations, we go through the"
"same ritual. We attend the general debate knowing"
"beforehand that the clamour for justice and peace by"
"our underdeveloped countries will be ignored once"
"again. However, we persist. We know that we are right."
"We know that one day we will accomplish social"
"justice and development. We also know that such assets"
"will not be given away to us. We know that the peoples"
"will have to seize them from those who deny us justice"
"today, because they underpin their wealth and"
"arrogance with disdain for our grief. It will not be"
"always like that, however. We say so today with more"
"conviction than ever before."
"Having said this, and knowing as we do that some"
"powerful ones  just a few  present here will be"
"chagrined, and also knowing that they are shared by"
"many, Cuba will now tell some truths."
"First, after the aggression on Iraq, there is no"
"United Nations, understood as a useful and diverse"
"forum based on respect for the rights of all and with"
"guarantees for the small States. It is experiencing the"
"worst moment of its nearly 60 years. It languishes, it"
"gasps for air, it keeps up appearances, but it does not"
"work. Who handcuffed the United Nations, named by"
"President Roosevelt? President Bush."
"Second, United States troops will have to be"
"withdrawn from Iraq. Now that the lives of over 1,000"
"American youths have been uselessly sacrificed to"
"serve the spurious interests of a clique of cronies and"
"buddies, and following the deaths of more than 12,000"
"Iraqis, it is clear that the only way out for the occupier"
"faced with a people in revolt is to recognize the"
"impossibility of subduing them and to withdraw. In"
"spite of the imperial monopoly over information,"
"peoples always get to the truth. Someday, those"
"responsible and their accomplices will have to deal"
"with the consequences of their actions in the face of"
"history and their own peoples."
"Third, for the time being, there will be no valid,"
"real and useful reform of the United Nations. It would"
"take the super-Power, which inherited the immense"
"prerogative of governing an order conceived for a"
"bipolar world, to relinquish its privileges. And it will"
"not do so."
"33"
NA
"As of now, we know that the anachronistic"
"privilege of the veto will remain; that the Security"
"Council will not be democratized as it should be or"
"expanded to include third world countries; that the"
"General Assembly will continue to stand ignored; and"
"that, at the United Nations, there will be more actions"
"driven by the interests imposed by the super-Power and"
"its allies. We, as non-aligned countries, will have to"
"entrench ourselves in defending the United Nations"
"Charter, because if we do not it will be redrafted with"
"the deletion of every trace of such principles as the"
"sovereign equality of States, non-intervention and the"
"non-use or the threat of use of force."
"Fourth, the powerful collude to divide us. The"
"130-plus underdeveloped countries must build a"
"common front for the defence of the sacred interests of"
"our peoples and of our right to development and peace."
"Let us revitalize the Non-Aligned Movement. Let us"
"strengthen the Group of 77."
"Fifth, the modest objectives of the Millennium"
"Declaration will not be accomplished. We will reach"
"the fifth anniversary of the Summit in a situation that"
"has worsened. We sought to halve by 2015 the 1.276"
"billion human beings in abject poverty that existed in"
"1990. There would have to be a yearly reduction of"
"more than 46 million poor people. However, excluding"
"China, between 1990 and 2000, extreme poverty rose"
"by 28 million people. Poverty does not decline, it"
"grows."
"We wanted to reduce by half by 2015 the 842"
"million hungry people in the world. There would have"
"had to be a yearly reduction of 28 million. However,"
"there has been a reduction of barely 2.1 million hungry"
"people per year. At this rate, the goal will be attained"
"by 2215, two hundred years after what was envisaged,"
"and only if our species survives the destruction of its"
"environment."
"We proclaimed the aspiration to achieve universal"
"primary education by 2015. However, more than 120"
"million children  or 1 in every 5 children of school"
"age  do not attend primary school. According to the"
"United Nations Childrens Fund (UNICEF), at the"
"current rate, the goal will be achieved after 2100."
"We also proposed to reduce by two thirds the"
"mortality rate in children under the age of five. The"
"reduction has been symbolic: whereas 86 children died"
"per 1,000 live births in 1998, the figure is now 82."
"Every year, 11 million children continue to die of"
"diseases that can be prevented or cured, and their"
"parents rightfully wonder what our meetings are for."
"We said that we would pay attention to Africas"
"special needs. However, very little has been done."
"African nations do not need foreign advice or models,"
"but rather financial resources and access to markets"
"and technologies. Assisting Africa would not be an act"
"of charity, but an act of justice, a settling of the historic"
"debt resulting from centuries of exploitation and"
"pillage."
"We committed ourselves to halting and starting to"
"reverse the AIDS epidemic by 2015. However, in 2003,"
"it claimed nearly 3 million lives. At this rate, some 36"
"million people will have died of this disease by 2015."
"Sixth, creditor countries and the international"
"financial agencies will not seek a just and lasting"
"solution to foreign debt. They prefer to keep us in"
"debt  in other words, vulnerable. Therefore, even"
"though we have paid off $4.1 trillion in debt servicing"
"over the last 13 years, our debt has increased from $1.4"
"trillion to $2.6 trillion. This means that we have paid"
"three times what we owed and now our debt is twice as"
"large."
"Seventh, we, the underdeveloped countries, are"
"the ones that finance the wastefulness and the opulence"
"of developed countries. While in 2003 they gave us"
"$68.4 billion in official development assistance (ODA),"
"we delivered $436 billion to them as payment for the"
"foreign debt. Who is helping whom?"
"Eighth, the fight against terrorism can only be"
"won through cooperation among all nations, with"
"respect for international law, and not through massive"
"bombings or pre-emptive wars against dark corners of"
"the world. We must put an end to hypocrisy and double"
"standards. Sheltering three Cuban-born terrorists in the"
"United States is an act complicit with terrorism."
"Punishing five young Cuban antiterrorists, together"
"with their families, is a crime."
"Ninth, general and complete disarmament,"
"including nuclear disarmament, is impossible today. It"
"is the responsibility of a group of developed countries"
"that are the ones that sell and buy the most weapons."
"However, we must continue to strive for this goal. We"
"must demand that the over $900 billion set aside every"
"year for military expenditures be used for"
"development."
"34"
NA
"Tenth, the financial resources to guarantee the"
"sustainable development of all peoples on the planet"
"are available, but what is lacking is the political will of"
"those who rule the world. A development tax of merely"
"0.1 per cent on international financial transactions"
"would generate resources amounting to almost $400"
"billion a year. The cancellation of the foreign debt"
"incurred by underdeveloped countries would allow"
"them to have no less than $436 billion a year available"
"for their development, money which is currently used"
"to pay off the constantly-rising debt. If developed"
"countries complied with their commitment to set aside"
"0.7 per cent of their gross national product as ODA,"
"and not 0.2 per cent as they currently do, their"
"contribution would increase from the current $68.4"
"billion to $160 billion a year."
"Lastly, I want to clearly express Cubas profound"
"conviction that the 6.4 billion human beings on this"
"planet  who have equal rights according to the"
"United Nations Charter  urgently require a new order"
"in which the world is not in suspense, as is the case"
"now, awaiting the outcome of the elections in a new"
"Rome, in which only half the voters will participate"
"and nearly $1.5 billion will be spent."
"There is no discouragement in our words; I must"
"make that clear. We are optimistic, because we are"
"revolutionaries. We have faith in the struggle of the"
"peoples, and we are sure that we will achieve a new"
"world order based on respect for the rights of all  an"
"order based on solidarity, justice and peace, resulting"
"from the best of universal culture, not from mediocrity"
"or brute force."
"With regard to Cuba  and neither blockades,"
"threats, hurricanes, droughts, nor human or natural"
"force can divert it from its course  I shall say"
"nothing. On 28 October, for the thirteenth time, the"
"General Assembly will discuss and vote on a draft"
"resolution on the blockade against the Cuban people."
"Once again, morality and principles will defeat"
"arrogance and force."
"I conclude by recalling the words spoken here 25"
"years ago by President Fidel Castro:"
"The clashing of weapons, the threatening"
"language and the overbearing behaviour in the"
"international arena must cease. Enough of the"
"illusion that the problems of the world can be"
"solved by nuclear weapons. Bombs may kill the"
"hungry, the sick and the ignorant; but bombs"
"cannot kill hunger, disease and ignorance. Nor"
"can bombs kill the righteous rebellion of the"
"peoples."
"Actually, we have no reason to celebrate the sixtieth"
"anniversary of the United Nations. The chaotic,"
"unequal and insecure world in which we are now living"
"is not much of a tribute to those who gathered on"
"26 June 1945 in San Francisco to found the United"
"Nations."
"From the conclusion of the Millennium Summit"
"in 2000 until today, more of the worlds children have"
"died of preventable diseases than all of the victims of"
"the Second World War put together."
"The aggression against Iraq was launched, not"
"just without regard to, but even counter to the opinion"
"of the international community. That happened just two"
"and a half years after having solemnly proclaimed at"
"the Millennium Summit that We are determined to"
"establish a just and lasting peace all over the world in"
"accordance with the purposes and principles of the"
"Charter (resolution 55/2, para. 4). The General"
"Assembly could not even meet to discuss it. The"
"Security Council was ignored and then had to undergo"
"the humiliation of docilely accepting a predatory war"
"that had earlier been opposed by a majority of its"
"members."
"There is a clear explanation for the current state"
"of affairs, which is that the order enshrined in the"
"Charter pertained to a bipolar world and to a balance of"
"power that no longer exists today. We, the peoples "
"as the Charter says  must bear the burden of a"
"unipolar world, in which a single super-Power imposes"
"its whims and selfish interests on the United Nations"
"and the international community."
"Therefore, trying to get the United Nations to"
"function in conformity with the principles and purposes"
"enshrined in the Charter is make-believe. It is not"
"possible. And it will not be possible as long as third"
"world countries, which make up the majority of the"
"world, fail to unite and fight together for their rights."
"Were the United States Government to comply"
"with Security Council resolution 1373 (2001), adopted"
"on 28 September 2001, and to the international"
"conventions on terrorism, it would extradite the"
"terrorist Luis Posada Carriles to Venezuela and release"
"the five young Cuban anti-terrorist fighters who have"
"been subjected to cruel and unjust imprisonment for"
"seven years."
"Had the United States Government allowed the"
"United Nations to act in accordance with the Charter,"
"the Iraqi people would not have been invaded so that"
"they could be robbed of their petroleum, the Palestinian"
"21"
NA
"people would exercise sovereignty over their territory"
"and Cuba would not continue to be blockaded. Nor"
"would there be billions of illiterate people or 900"
"million starving human beings in the world."
"That explains the failure of last weeks summit,"
"which was convened to assess compliance with the"
"modest commitments entered into to fulfil the"
"Millennium Development Goals and which ended as a"
"pitiful imitation of what should have been a serious and"
"committed debate concerning the grave problems"
"currently besetting humankind. It was a complete farce."
"It was of no interest to the powerful. Their selfish and"
"hegemonic interests run counter to the aspiration for a"
"more just and better world for all."
"The scandalous pressures and blackmail brought"
"to bear on Member States, after the United States"
"Ambassador brandished the stick and attempted to"
"impose 750 amendments on the outcome document,"
"will go down in history as the most eloquent evidence"
"that a new world and a new United Nations must be"
"built, with respect for and recognition of the right to"
"peace, sovereignty and development for all, without"
"genocidal wars, blockades or injustice. The final"
"negotiations, from which most United Nations"
"Members were excluded, and the outcome document"
"that was adopted, in which issues of vital interest for"
"our peoples have been omitted, is a vivid illustration of"
"what we are talking about."
"While we await the day in which that new world"
"and the new United Nations can become a reality, we,"
"the peoples, will continue to fight and, through our"
"resistance, win once again the rights currently denied"
"to us."
"The powerful only talk about interventions and"
"preventive wars, about imposing draconian conditions"
"or the most efficient ways to control the United"
"Nations, while attempting to legitimize concepts such"
"as the so-called responsibility to protect, which could"
"be used one day to justify acts of aggression against"
"our countries. Let us spell this out clearly: today there"
"is no right to peace for the small."
"We as Cubans understand this very well, and we"
"rely on the solidarity of peoples, on our united front"
"and on our weapons, which have never been used"
"except to defend just causes. Our brothers and sisters in"
"Africa know this well."
"We are not pessimists; we are revolutionaries. We"
"do not surrender or conform. Today, more resolutely"
"than ever, we affirm that we, the peoples will"
"overcome."
"As President Hugo Chvez said in his brilliant"
"statement, only four days ago the Fourteenth Summit"
"of the Non-Aligned Movement, held in Cuba,"
"concluded. Today I speak on behalf of the Movements"
"Chairman, President Fidel Castro, fulfilling our"
"obligation to inform the Assembly of the main"
"decisions agreed at the summit conference in Havana."
"As First Vice-President of the Council of State"
"and Minister of the Republic of Cuba, Ral Castro,"
"said in his opening speech:"
"The current international situation, characterized"
"by the one super-Powers irrational attempts to"
"control the world, aided by its allies, shows that"
"we need to be increasingly united in defence of"
"the principles and purposes upon which the Non-"
"Aligned Movement was established, which are"
"those enshrined in international law and the"
"Charter of the United Nations."
"While the founding of the Movement was"
"necessary more than four decades ago, its continued"
"relevance in todays world is beyond doubt. The"
"summit held in Cuba was an indisputable success, in"
"spite of the threats and pressures of those who oppose"
"the unity and common efforts of the countries of the"
"south. The summit saw high levels of participation, in"
""
""
"06-52879 24"
""
"terms both of the number of countries attending the"
"conference and of the attendance of heads of State or"
"Government. Profound and fruitful debates were held"
"in an atmosphere of true understanding, unity and"
"cohesion, which allowed for the adoption of documents"
"of crucial importance to the role of the Non-Aligned"
"Movement."
"As the new Chairman, Cuba was given clear"
"mandates and an action programme that will govern its"
"activities as head of the Movement. As a result of the"
"summit, the Non-Aligned Movement has been"
"strengthened and consequently so has the political"
"unity of the countries of the South. The diverse and"
"heterogeneous nature of the Movements membership,"
"far from weakening it, constitutes its essential strength."
"These features have allowed for the creation of solid"
"consensus that will be a positive contribution to our"
"efforts to overcome the many and serious challenges"
"humanity faces today. The commendable work of"
"Malaysia as the Movements Chairman over the past"
"three years was acknowledged at the Summit. There"
"was no cause or demand by a country of the south"
"which was not duly considered or which did not meet"
"with the support of the Movement."
"Progress in the defence of multilateralism,"
"demanding respect for the sovereignty and territorial"
"integrity of all States, and ensuring the full realization"
"of our peoples right to development and peace were"
"ratified at the Summit as the Movements principles,"
"whose implementation was urgently needed. The Heads"
"of State or Government decided to work to suppress"
"acts of aggression or other actions contrary to the"
"preservation of peace and to encourage the peaceful"
"settlement of international disputes."
"The summit called on all nations to abstain from"
"the use of force or from threatening to use force against"
"the territorial integrity or independence of any State."
"Participating nations promoted the development of"
"relations of friendship based on respect for the"
"principle of equal rights and the will of all peoples to"
"struggle against foreign occupation. They urged nations"
"to extend international cooperation with a view to"
"overcoming the serious economic, social, cultural and"
"humanitarian challenges that face the world and to"
"promoting respect for the human rights and"
"fundamental liberties of all for the benefit of all. The"
"fundamental and inalienable right of all peoples to self-"
"determination was reaffirmed in Havana. The non-"
"aligned countries agreed that world peace and security"
"are today more imperilled than ever as a result, among"
"other factors, of the growing trend of the most"
"powerful States to resort to unilateral measures and to"
"the threat of pre-emptive wars."
"The Movements commitment to general and"
"complete disarmament, and nuclear disarmament in"
"particular, under strict and efficient international"
"monitoring, was underscored. The summit also"
"reaffirmed the basic and inalienable right of all States"
"to research, develop, produce and use nuclear energy"
"for peaceful purposes and to be free from any kind of"
"discrimination in this connection, in conformity with"
"their respective international obligations. Similarly, the"
"summit clearly and firmly pronounced itself to be"
"against terrorism, double standards in international"
"relations, coercive unilateral measures against any"
"nation, regime-change policies, and the failure of"
"developed countries to fulfil their commitments in"
"economic and social areas."
"The heads of State or Government reaffirmed"
"their hope to live in a peaceful world in which all"
"nations have the right to a better future and a fair and"
"equitable world order based on the sustainable"
"development of all nations. They affirmed that in its"
"current form globalization perpetuates and even"
"exacerbates the marginalization of the countries of the"
"south and demanded that it be radically transformed"
"into a positive force for change for the benefit of all"
"peoples."
"The participants reaffirmed the right of the"
"Palestinian people to have their own State, and"
"condemned the Government of Israel for the new wave"
"of crimes and massacres in Gaza and other occupied"
"territories. They also vigorously condemned Israels"
"merciless acts of aggression against Lebanon and the"
"serious violations of that nations sovereignty and"
"territorial integrity."
"The people and Government of Bolivia, facing"
"attempts to destabilize the country instigated by"
"external forces, received a gesture of support and"
"solidarity from the summit. The process under way in"
"that sister nation, aimed at guaranteeing the real rights"
"of all Bolivians and at securing full national control"
"over the countrys natural resources, was offered solid"
"support."
"The Movement considered with great concern the"
"aggressive policies and intensification of action aimed"
"at undermining the stability of the Bolivarian Republic"
""
""
"25 06-52879"
""
"of Venezuela and expressed support for the inalienable"
"right of the Venezuelan people to determine its form of"
"government and choose its economic, political and"
"social system, free from foreign intervention,"
"subversion, coercion or restrictions of any kind. The"
"non-aligned undertook to promote and participate in a"
"true process of democratization and reform of the"
"United Nations so as to leave behind the anti-"
"democratic impositions and practices of the Security"
"Council and to give the General Assembly its due"
"decisive role, in conformity with the roles and powers"
"described in the United Nations Charter."
"I have mentioned only a few examples of the"
"positions adopted at the summit held in Havana with"
"respect to the most diverse issues on the international"
"agenda. The documents adopted will be officially"
"distributed to all United Nations Member States. A"
"number of the decisions adopted at the summit will"
"soon be put into practice at this session of the General"
"Assembly."
"Cuba is aware of the immense responsibility"
"inherent in presiding over the Non-Aligned Movement"
"at one of the most difficult times in human history,"
"when we face more inequality and injustice than ever"
"before. We shall not rest in our efforts to have the"
"Movement occupy the place it can and must occupy in"
"the international arena, in keeping with not only its"
"broad membership of 118 countries  nearly two"
"thirds of the membership of the United Nations  but"
"also its history of acting on behalf of the loftiest"
"causes."
"Inaugurating the Sixth Summit of the Non-"
"Aligned Movement in Havana 27 years ago, President"
"Fidel Castro said:"
"The struggle for peace and for a just economic"
"order and a workable solution to the pressing"
"problems that weigh on our peoples is, in our"
"opinion, increasingly becoming the main question"
"posed to the Movement of Non-Aligned"
"Countries. Peace and the immense risks that"
"threaten it, is not something that should be left"
"exclusively in the hands of the big military"
"Powers. Peace is possible, but world peace can"
"only be assured to the extent that all countries are"
"consciously determined to fight for it  peace,"
"not just for a part of the world, but for all"
"peoples."
"A few days later in this same Hall, reporting on that"
"summit, President Castro said:"
"The sounds of weapons, of threatening language,"
"and of arrogant behaviour in the international"
"arena must cease. We have had enough of the"
"illusion that the problems of the world can be"
"solved by nuclear weapons. Bombs may kill the"
"hungry, the sick, and the ignorant, but they cannot"
"kill hunger, disease or ignorance. Nor can they"
"kill the righteous rebellion of the peoples."
"The countries of the South will work united for"
"justice, peace and the development of our nations and"
"the entire world, convinced that a better world is"
"possible if we all struggle for it."
"I should now like to say a few words on behalf of"
"the people and Government of Cuba. Our peoples"
"exercise of its right to self-determination faces new"
"threats. The Bush Administration has stepped up its"
"brutally hostile measures against Cuba with new"
"economic sanctions that further intensify what is"
"already the longest blockade human history has known."
"More severe reprisals are also being taken against"
"those from other nations who have business dealings"
"with Cuba, and financial transactions with our country"
"are viciously persecuted. The very Government of the"
"United States recognizes that it is spending more today"
"in persecuting and punishing those who have business"
"dealings with Cuba than in monitoring the finances of"
"those who attacked the twin towers."
"This past June the Bush Administration approved"
"the second version of its most recent plan of aggression"
"and domination against our country, aimed not only at"
"overthrowing the revolution but also at destroying the"
"Cuban nation. In violation of international norms and"
"laws, an unprecedented build-up of financial and"
"material support for subversive actions aimed at"
"overthrowing the constitutional order freely chosen by"
"the Cuban people is being promoted. That anti-Cuban"
"plan contains a chapter that is being kept secret."
"The precedents for these decisions are the covert"
"actions undertaken against the Cuban revolution, which"
"include mercenary invasions, terrorist actions, the"
"introduction of plagues and epidemics to the country,"
"and more than 600 plots to assassinate Fidel."
"Thousands of Cubans have lost their lives or been"
"maimed for life as a result of this criminal policy. As"
"the height of hypocrisy and irresponsibility, the"
"Government of the United States tolerates the presence"
"of, and protects, the terrorists who plan new actions"
"against our people on United States soil. While"
"manoeuvring to free the murderers responsible for"
"monstrous crimes  such as the notorious"
""
""
"06-52879 26"
""
"international terrorist and CIA agent Luis Posada"
"Carriles, whom they refuse to extradite to Venezuela "
"the United States Government is illegally and unjustly"
"keeping five courageous anti-terrorist Cuban activists"
"in prison."
"In spite of all these acts of aggression and the"
"criminal blockade, the Cuban people will never be"
"defeated. Cubas internationalist efforts continue"
"unhindered. More than 30,000 Cuban doctors and other"
"Cuban health professionals are saving lives in 68"
"different countries today. We are participating in the"
"struggle against illiteracy on several continents. We are"
"developing a plan to train 100,000 doctors for the third"
"world, and we are helping hundreds of thousands of"
"people in many countries to regain their sight through"
"Operation Miracle. With these efforts we are just"
"fulfilling our fundamental duty in solidarity to aid all"
"the peoples of the world."
"Cuba is making progress and will continue to"
"advance and face the future with optimism and unity."
"Its educated and hard-working people, who consider"
"humanity to be their homeland, will struggle hand in"
"hand with the peoples the Assembly represents for the"
"right to live in peace, justice and dignity for all."
"Never before have the real dangers awaiting the human"
"species become so evident; never before have the"
"violations of international law become so evident, as"
"they increasingly jeopardize international peace and"
"security; never before have inequality and exclusion"
"become so evident, as they impact over two thirds of"
"the population on our planet."
"Putting an end to wastefulness and to the"
"unbridled consumerism fostered by the large"
"corporations and the power groups of a handful of"
"developed countries   which throw money away at the"
"cost of poverty and the perpetuation of"
"underdevelopment in a vast periphery of poor countries"
"where billions of people scramble to make a living"
"has become a key factor for the survival of mankind."
"The high-level meeting of this General Assembly held"
"only two days ago emphasized the danger posed by the"
"accelerated global warming that is already affecting us"
"and by its effect on climate change. Action must be"
"taken   and quickly. The developed countries have the"
"moral duty and the historic responsibility to set the"
"example and spearhead the effort."
"On the other hand, several of our countries,"
"always from the South, continue to fall prey to"
"unacceptable acts of aggression by the ever-powerful,"
"which are essentially driven by the insatiable hunger"
"for strategic resources. The wars of conquest and the"
"proclamation and implementation of doctrines based on"
"pre-emptive wars   which do not exclude the use of"
"nuclear weapons, even against non-nuclear States"
"and the repeated use of pretexts such as the alleged war"
"on terror, the supposed promotion of democracy or"
"so-called regime change in countries that are"
"unilaterally labelled as rogue States are today the"
"greatest and most serious threat to peace and security"
"in the world."
"Aggression and illegal occupation of countries,"
"military intervention contrary to international law and"
"the purposes and principles enshrined in the United"
"Nations Charter, the bombing of civilians and torture"
"continue to be daily practices. Under the false litany of"
"freedom and democracy, an attempt is made to justify"
"the pillaging of the natural resources in the third world"
"and to control zones of increasing geo-strategic"
"importance. That and no other is the imperial"
"domination plan that the mightiest military superpower"
"ever to exist intends to impose through blood and fire."
"Far from behaving in international relations"
"according to the principles of solidarity, social and"
"international justice, equality and development for all,"
"there is no hesitation at all in employing the practices"
"of certifying countries, of imposing unilateral"
"blockades and of threatening through aggression,"
"blackmail and coercion. If a small country defends its"
"right to independence, it is accused of being a rogue"
"State; if a Power launches an attack against a country,"
"it is said that it liberates them; a fighter against foreign"
"aggression is a terrorist; an attacking soldier is a"
"freedom fighter. That is the media war, the twisting of"
"truths, the tyranny of monolithic thinking in a"
"globalized world."
"Instead of moving towards general and complete"
"disarmament   including nuclear disarmament, which"
"has been an ongoing demand of the Movement of"
"Non-Aligned Countries for decades   what we see is"
"the promotion of the arms race and the squandering of"
"wealth on new weapons and arms systems that deplete"
"the resources that the world needs to mitigate the"
"effects of climate change and address the very serious"
"problems stemming from poverty and marginalization."
"An attempt is made to prevent, in a politicized"
"and selective fashion, the implementation of the"
"principle   already proclaimed in the"
"Non-Proliferation Treaty   that nations have the right"
"to the development of nuclear energy for peaceful"
"purposes. Some countries are threatened with war and"
"destruction while the aggressive ally is permitted to"
"have hundreds of nuclear devices and is constantly"
"helped to modernize them."
"How much longer will it take and how many new"
"victims will have to die before the hawks of war"
"understand that weapons are useless in resolving the"
"critical problems of humankind? On a day like today, it"
"is worth recalling the words uttered by President Fidel"
"Castro in this General Assembly in October 1979:"
"Let us say farewell to arms, and let us in a"
"civilized manner dedicate ourselves to the most"
"pressing problems of our times. This is the"
"responsibility, this is the most sacred duty of the"
"statesmen of all the world. Moreover, this is the"
"basic premise for human survival."
"There has been no progress to date towards"
"fulfilling the Millennium Goals and the decisions of"
"the major United Nations conferences held over the"
"past decade. Poverty has not decreased. Inequality"
"among and within countries is on the rise. Drinking"
"water is not accessible to 1.1 billion people; 2.6 billion"
"lack health services; over 800 million are illiterate and"
"115 million children do not attend primary school; 850"
"million starve every day. One per cent of the worlds"
"richest people own 40 per cent of the wealth, while 50"
"per cent of the worlds population has barely"
"1 per cent. All this is happening in a world that spends"
"a trillion dollars on weapons and another trillion on"
"advertising."
"The nearly 1 billion people living in developed"
"countries consume approximately half of all the energy,"
"while 2 billion poor people are still not acquainted with"
"electricity. Is that the world that they want us to"
"accept? Is that, by any chance, the future that we"
"should settle for? Are we entitled or not to fight to"
"change that state of things? Should we or should we"
"not fight to make a better world possible?"
"Why are such colossal resources squandered on"
"the killing industry and not used to save lives? Why are"
"schools not built instead of nuclear submarines, and"
"hospitals instead of smart bombs? Why are vaccines"
"not produced instead of armoured vehicles, and more"
"food instead of more fighter jets? Why is there no"
"momentum given to research to fight AIDS, malaria"
"and tuberculosis instead of promoting the manufacture"
"of anti-missile shields? Why is there no war waged"
"against poverty instead of against the poor?"
"Despite the fact that only $150 billion is needed"
"to meet the Millennium Goals, we hear the hypocritical"
"assertion that there is no source from which to obtain"
"the necessary financial resources. That is a lie. There is"
"money in abundance; what is lacking is the political"
"will, ethics and the real commitment of those who have"
"to make a choice."
"If they really want money to appear, let the"
"commitment of setting aside 0.7 per cent of gross"
"national product as official development assistance be"
"met once and for all. That would require $141 billion"
"over and above the current amounts. At the height of"
"deceit, the donor countries are now auditing the"
"cancellations of a debt that they know they will not be"
"able to collect in order to artificially inflate their"
"contributions. Let the foreign debt, which our countries"
"have already paid more than once, be cancelled. That"
"would make it possible to set aside for development the"
"over $400 billion currently used to service a debt that"
"does not cease to grow."
"Let the Doha Round for development come to an"
"end and let the $300 billion in agricultural subsidies for"
"the developed countries be removed. That would make"
"it possible to earmark that money to fight rural poverty"
"and food insecurity and to ensure fair prices for the"
"export products of the underdeveloped countries."
"Let our right to development be recognized. Let"
"our right to have access to markets, patents and"
"technologies be guaranteed, for those are now the"
"exclusive monopoly of the powerful. Let our countries"
"be helped in training professionals and scientists and"
"let the brain drain stop."
"The non-aligned countries need no alms; we need"
"and demand justice. Let our rights to cultural diversity"
"be respected, as well as our right to the preservation of"
"our heritage, our symbols and our idiosyncrasies. That"
"was the unanimous demand made in Tehran by the"
"non-aligned countries at our ministerial meeting on"
"human rights and cultural diversity."
"The non-aligned countries want a more"
"democratic and transparent United Nations in which"
"the General Assembly, its most representative and"
"democratic body, can truly implement the powers"
"vested in it. We need a United Nations with a reformed"
"Security Council, acting in conformity with the"
"mandate granted to it by the Organizations Charter"
"without infringing on the functions and prerogatives of"
"other organs of the system. There must be a Security"
"Council with an expanded membership in line with the"
"current composition of the United Nations, where the"
"underdeveloped countries are the majority. There must"
"be a Security Council with a radical modification to its"
"working methods in order to allow transparency and"
"the access of all Member States to its deliberations."
"We need a Human Rights Council that prevents"
"the repetition of the serious mistakes made by the"
"former Commission on Human Rights. The Council"
"should enshrine in its practices the principle that"
"human rights are universal, indivisible and"
"interdependent. It should put an end to selectivity and"
"double standards. The non-aligned countries will"
"firmly oppose the devilish schemes of some mighty"
"quarters that, frustrated as they are at failing to achieve"
"their goals, are now attempting to reopen and call into"
"question the agreement reached in the hard and"
"difficult process of institution-building in the Council."
"The non-aligned countries will not give up on"
"defence of the precepts that underlie our movement."
"Among the nations, we will foster relations of"
"friendship based on respect for the principles of"
"sovereignty, equality of rights and the self-"
"determination of peoples."
"We will continue to defend the right of the grief-"
"stricken and heroic people of Palestine to have their"
"own State, with East Jerusalem as its capital. We will"
"continue to condemn the genocide committed against"
"it. We will continue to proclaim the right of the people"
"of Puerto Rico to sovereignty and to independence. The"
"non-aligned countries account for nearly two thirds of"
"the membership of the United Nations. Our demands"
"will not be forgotten or our interests ignored."
"This was supposed to be the end of my statement"
"as Chair of the Non-Aligned Movement. However, the"
"shameless and gross behaviour of the United States"
"President in this Hall yesterday morning now forces me"
"to utter a few remarks on Cubas behalf."
"With foul language and an arrogant tone,"
"President Bush insulted and threatened some 10"
"countries. He gave orders in a firm and authoritarian"
"fashion to the General Assembly, and with an"
"officiousness never before seen in this Hall he dished"
"out terms and judgments on a score of countries. It was"
"an embarrassing show   the delirium tremens of the"
"worlds policeman, the intoxication of imperial power"
"imbued with the mediocrity and cynicism of those who"
"threaten to launch wars in which they know their lives"
"are not at stake."
"The President of the United States has no right to"
"pass judgment on any other sovereign nation on this"
"planet. Having powerful nuclear weapons offers no"
"right whatsoever to tread upon the rights of the peoples"
"of the other 191 countries that are represented here."
"And the determination and courage of peoples should"
"not be underestimated when it comes to defending their"
"rights. After all, what prevails is not the power of"
"cannons but the fairness of the ideas for which you are"
"fighting. The warmongering and menacing President"
"should have already learned this by now: sovereign"
"equality of States, not regime change; respect for"
"sovereignty, not unilateral certifications of good"
"behaviour; respect for international law, not illegal"
"blockades and wars."
"President Bush talked about democracy, but we"
"all know that he is lying. He came into office through"
"fraud and deceit. We would have been spared his"
"presence yesterday and would have listened to"
"President Albert Gore talking about climate change and"
"the risks to our species. We also recall how he brazenly"
"supported the coup dtat against the President and the"
"constitution of Venezuela."
"He talked about peace, but we know that he is"
"lying. We remember well when he threatened 60 or"
"more countries, which he called dark corners of the"
"world, saying that he would wipe them off the face of"
"the Earth with pre-emptive surprise attacks. Bush is a"
"strange warrior who, from the rearguard, sends the"
"young people of his country to kill and to die"
"thousands of kilometres away."
"He talked about human rights, but we know that"
"he is lying. He is responsible for the death of 600,000"
"civilians in Iraq; he authorized tortures at the"
"Guantnamo naval base and at Abu Ghraib; and he is"
"an accessory to the kidnapping and disappearance of"
"people, as well as to the secret flights and the"
"clandestine prisons."
"He talked about the fight against terrorism, but"
"we know that he is lying. He has ensured complete"
"impunity for the most abominable terrorist groups"
"which, from Miami, have perpetrated horrendous"
"crimes against the Cuban people. President Bush"
"attacked the new Human Rights Council. He is"
"bleeding from his wound; he is grunting his"
"helplessness. He is haunted by the shamefulness that,"
"during his term in office, the United States cannot even"
"look forward to being a member because elections are"
"through secret ballot. Cuba, on the other hand, was"
"elected as a founding member of the Council with more"
"than two thirds of the votes."
"He talked about cooperation, development and"
"prosperity for the rest of the world, but we all know"
"that he is lying. He has been the most selfish and"
"reckless politician we have ever seen. In a world that"
"this year will bear witness to the death of 10 million"
"children under the age of five through preventable"
"diseases, his self-seeking and empty proposals of"
"yesterday are but a sick joke."
"President Bush has no moral authority or"
"credibility to judge anyone. He should be held"
"accountable to the world for his crimes. There is a limit"
"to both arrogance and hypocrisy. There is a limit to lies"
"and blackmail. Cuba rejects and condemns every one"
"of the mendacious words uttered yesterday by the"
"President of the United States."
"Cuba appreciates the solidarity it has received"
"from the General Assembly in its struggle against the"
"blockade and the aggression that it has been forced to"
"endure for nearly five decades. In particular, I thank"
"the President of Nicaragua, Comrade Daniel Ortega,"
"who is here in the Hall, for his kind words yesterday,"
"and I thank all those who have spoken out for the rights"
"and justice for the Cuban people. Cuba thanks all those"
"who have supported its tenacious fight against"
"terrorism and have raised their voice in favour of the"
"release of five Cuban anti-terrorism fighters unjustly"
"imprisoned in the United States."
"Cuba will fight, along with all other members of"
"the Non-Aligned Movement, in order to achieve a more"
"just and democratic international order, in which our"
"peoples can exercise their right to peace and"
"development. We may be accused of being dreamers,"
"but we are fighting with the conviction that todays"
"dreams will be tomorrows realities. We are fighting"
"and we will not stop fighting   with the conviction"
"that even when there are individuals without decorum,"
"there are always others who have in themselves the"
"decorum of many and who bear within themselves an"
"entire nations, as well as human dignity."
"Mr. President, on behalf of Cuba, I would"
"like to congratulate you on your election as President"
"of the General Assembly."
"We are living at a decisive moment in the history"
"of humankind. The threats looming over the world put"
"the very existence of the human species at risk."
"The promotion of peace, solidarity, social justice"
"and sustainable development is the only way to ensure"
"the future. The prevailing world order, unjust and"
"unsustainable, must be replaced by a new system that"
"is truly democratic and equitable, based on respect for"
"international law and on the principles of solidarity and"
"justice, putting an end to the inequalities and exclusion"
"to which the great majorities of the population of our"
"planet have been condemned."
"There are no alternatives. Those responsible for"
"this state of affairs  the industrialized countries, and"
"in particular the lone super-Power  must shoulder"
"their responsibilities. Fabulous fortunes cannot"
"continue to be wasted while millions of human beings"
"are starving or dying of curable diseases. It is not"
"possible to continue to pollute the air and poison the"
"oceans, which is destroying the living conditions for"
"future generations. Neither the peoples nor the planet"
"itself will permit that without great social upheavals"
"and extremely grave natural disasters."
"Wars of conquest, aggression against and the"
"illegal occupation of countries, military intervention"
"and the bombing of innocent civilians, the unbridled"
"arms race, the pillaging and usurpation of the natural"
"resources of the Third World and the imperial offensive"
"to crush the resistance of peoples who are defending"
"their rights constitute the greatest and most serious"
"threats to international peace and security."
"Concepts such as the limitation of sovereignty,"
"pre-emptive war and regime change are expressions of"
"the desire to mutilate the independence of our"
"countries. The so-called war on terrorism and the"
"alleged promotion of freedoms serve as pretexts for"
"aggression, military occupation, torture, arbitrary"
"detention, the denial of the right of peoples to self-"
"determination, unjust blockades, unilaterally imposed"
"sanctions and the imposition of political, economic and"
"social models that facilitate imperial domination with"
"flagrant disdain for history, cultures and the sovereign"
"will of peoples."
"The gap between the rich and the poor widens"
"daily. The very modest Millennium Development Goals"
"are an unattainable dream for the vast majority. While"
"$1 trillion is spent on weapons worldwide, more than"
"850 million human beings are starving, 1.1 billion have"
"no access to drinking water, 2.6 billion lack sewage"
"services and more than 800 million are illiterate. More"
"than 640 million children lack adequate housing,"
"115 million do not attend primary school and"
"10 million die before reaching the age of 5, in most"
"cases as the result of diseases that can be cured."
"With increasing frequency, the populations of the"
"South are suffering from natural disasters, whose"
"consequences have been worsened by climate change."
"Haiti, Jamaica, Cuba and other countries of the"
"Caribbean are examples. We issue a special call for"
"solidarity with the brotherly people of Haiti in their"
"tragic situation."
"The rise in oil prices is the result of irrational"
"consumption, heavy speculative activity and imperial"
"military adventures. The desperate search for new"
"sources of energy has propelled the criminal strategy"
"driven by the Government of the United States to"
"transform grains and cereals into fuel."
"For many of the countries of the Non-Aligned"
"Movement, the situation is becoming unsustainable."
"Our nations have suffered and will have to continue to"
"suffer the consequences of the irrationality,"
"wastefulness and speculation of a few countries in the"
"industrialized North, which are responsible for the"
"world food crisis. They imposed trade liberalization"
"and financial prescriptions of structural adjustment on"
"the developing countries. They caused the ruin of many"
"small producers; they denied  and in some cases"
"destroyed  nascent agricultural development in the"
"countries of the South, turning them into net importers"
"of food."
"It is they who continue scandalous agricultural"
"subsidies while imposing their rules on international"
"trade. They set prices, monopolize technologies,"
"impose unjust certifications and manipulate"
"distribution channels, financing sources and trade."
"They control transport, scientific research, gene pools"
"and the production of fertilizers and pesticides."
""
""
"08-51749 38"
""
"We have not come here to complain. We have"
"come, on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned"
"Countries, to support and defend the demands of"
"billions of human beings who are calling for justice"
"and respect for their rights. The formula is not difficult;"
"nor does it require great sacrifices. All that is needed is"
"the necessary political will, less selfishness and the"
"objective understanding that, if we do not act today, the"
"consequences could be apocalyptic and would also"
"affect the rich and powerful. That is why Cuba, on"
"behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries,"
"calls once again on the Governments of developed"
"countries to honour their commitments. In particular,"
"we urge them to do the following."
"They should put an end to the wars of occupation"
"and to the plundering of the resources of the countries"
"of the Third World, and should free up at least a part of"
"their millions in military spending so that those"
"resources can be allocated to international assistance"
"for the benefit of sustainable development."
"We urge them to cancel the foreign debt of"
"developing countries, which has already been paid"
"more than once. That would release additional"
"resources that could be devoted to economic"
"development and social programmes."
"They should honour the commitment to allocate"
"at least 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product to"
"official development assistance without conditions, so"
"that the countries of the South could use those"
"resources for their national priorities. They should also"
"promote access on the part of poor countries to"
"substantial new financing."
"They are urged to devote one fourth of the money"
"that is wasted each year on commercial advertising to"
"food production, which would provide nearly"
"$250 billion more to fight hunger and malnutrition."
"They should allocate the money being used for"
"agricultural subsidies in the North to agricultural"
"development in the South. Thus, our countries would"
"have approximately $1 billion per day at their disposal"
"to invest in food production."
"We urge them to comply with the commitments"
"set out in the Kyoto Protocol and to establish more"
"ambitious emission-reduction targets beginning in"
"2012, without seeking to increase restrictions on"
"countries that, even now, maintain far lower per capita"
"emission levels than those of the countries of the"
"North."
"They should promote access by Third World"
"countries to technology and should support the training"
"of their human resources. Today, on the other hand,"
"qualified personnel from the South are subjected to"
"unfair competition and incentives resulting from"
"discriminatory and selective migration policies"
"implemented by the United States and Europe."
"Something that is today more urgent than ever is"
"the establishment of a democratic and equitable"
"international order and a fair and transparent trading"
"system in which all States can participate, in"
"sovereignty, in the decisions that affect them."
"It is our deepest belief that solidarity between"
"peoples and Governments is possible. In Latin America"
"and the Caribbean, the Bolivarian Alternative for the"
"Americas and Petrocaribe have demonstrated this."
"The Movement of Non-Aligned Countries has"
"remained faithful to its founding principles. We support"
"the cause of the Palestinian people and their inalienable"
"right to self-determination in an independent and"
"sovereign State, with its capital in East Jerusalem. We"
"support the cause of those other peoples whose"
"sovereignty and territorial integrity is being threatened,"
"like those of Venezuela and Bolivia, and we endorse"
"the right of Puerto Rico to be independent."
"We condemn the imposition of unilateral coercive"
"measures in violation of international law and attempts"
"to implant a single model for a political, economic and"
"social system. We object to the negative practice of"
"certifying countries that follows the patterns and"
"interests of the powerful. We strongly oppose political"
"manipulation and the application of double standards in"
"the matter of human rights, and we reject the selective"
"imposition of politically motivated resolutions against"
"the member countries of the Non-Aligned Movement."
"The establishment of the Human Rights Council"
"offers the opportunity to open a new era in the"
"promotion of and protection for all human rights for"
"all, on the basis of international cooperation and"
"constructive dialogue. Those who caused the demise of"
"the old Human Rights Commission are now trying to"
"disqualify the Council because they have not been able"
"to bend it to serve their own interests. They refuse to"
"participate in its work in order to escape the scrutiny of"
"the international community within the framework of"
""
""
"39 08-51749"
""
"the Universal Periodic Review mechanism. The"
"legitimacy of the Council does not depend on the"
"perception that the empire has about its work, but on"
"its capacity to discharge its mandate with the strictest"
"adherence to the principles of universality, objectivity,"
"impartiality and non-selectivity in the treatment of"
"human rights issues."
"The Movement of Non-Aligned Countries will"
"continue to defend the interests of the Third World and"
"promote the building of a world which is more just,"
"more democratic and with greater solidarity."
"Cuba has had to pay a very high price for the"
"defence of its independence and sovereignty. The"
"heroic Cuban people have endured the longest and"
"cruellest blockade in history, imposed by the most"
"powerful nation on Earth. Despite the fact that this"
"Assembly has repeatedly and resoundingly taken a"
"stand in favour of ending that genocidal policy, the"
"United States Government has not only ignored the"
"will of the international community, but in marked"
"disregard of it has gradually intensified its economic"
"war against Cuba. Never has the foreign policy against"
"a country been armed with such a broad and"
"sophisticated arsenal of aggressive measures in the"
"political, economic, cultural, diplomatic, military,"
"psychological and ideological domains."
"Cuba has just been lashed by two intense"
"hurricanes, which have devastated its agriculture,"
"seriously affected part of its infrastructure and"
"damaged or destroyed more than 400,000 homes."
"Allow me to take advantage of this opportunity, on"
"behalf of the Cuban Government and people, to thank"
"all those countries, organizations and persons who in"
"one way or another have honestly and sincerely"
"contributed with resources or moral support to the"
"reconstruction efforts undertaken by my country. That"
"stands in contrast with the position of the United States"
"Government, which continues to ruthlessly apply the"
"blockade."
"Cuba has asked for no gifts from the United"
"States Government. It has simply asked and asked"
"again that it be allowed to purchase in the United"
"States the materials that are indispensable for the"
"reconstruction of homes and the power grid, and that"
"American companies be authorized to grant Cuba"
"private commercial credits to buy food. The answer has"
"been negative and has been accompanied by an attempt"
"to manipulate information in such a manner that the"
"Government of the United States seems to be"
"concerned for the well-being of the Cuban people"
"while the Government of Cuba is perceived as turning"
"down their offer."
"If the United States were really so concerned for"
"the Cuban people, the only moral and ethical behaviour"
"would be to lift the blockade imposed on Cuba for five"
"decades, in violation of the most elemental rules of"
"international law and the Charter of the United"
"Nations. That irrational policy has a clear objective: to"
"destroy the process of profound revolutionary"
"transformation undertaken by the Cuban people since"
"1959  in other words, to trample on its right to self-"
"determination, wrest away its freedom and its political,"
"economic and social conquests and push it backwards"
"to its former neocolonial status."
"The Bush Administration attempts to justify the"
"intensification of its policy against Cuba by turning"
"once more to fraud and deceit, with its characteristic"
"cynicism and hypocrisy. Its determination to dominate"
"and recolonize Cuba is being presented as nothing less"
"than as an endeavour to liberate and democratize."
"Who, other than its accomplices, recognizes that"
"the United States Government has any authority in this"
"world in the matter of democracy and human rights?"
"What authority could such a Government claim that"
"hunts down and cruelly mistreats illegal migrants at its"
"southern border, that legalizes the use of torture and"
"keeps in concentration camps  such as the one"
"installed in the territory illegally occupied by the"
"United States base at Guantnamo  people who have"
"not been proved of or even charged with any crime?"
"What respect is due to a Government that attacks the"
"sovereignty of other States, using the excuse of the"
"fight against terrorism, while at the same time"
"guaranteeing impunity to anti-Cuban terrorists? What"
"kind of justice can be promoted by an Administration"
"that illegally keeps imprisoned five Cuban patriots who"
"were only seeking information to neutralize the actions"
"of the terrorist groups operating against Cuba from the"
"United States?"
"Cuba appreciates the solidarity it has received"
"from the General Assembly in its fight against the"
"blockade and the aggression that it has had to confront"
"for almost five decades. Cuba reaffirms its unyielding"
"decision to defend its sovereignty and independence."
"Cuba reiterates its will to carry on, together with"
"members of the Non-Aligned Movement, in the battle"
""
""
"08-51749 40"
""
"for a better world, where the rights of all peoples to"
"justice and development are respected."
"To conclude, I would like to recall the words of"
"the Commander-in-Chief of the Cuban Revolution,"
"Comrade Fidel Castro Ruz: A world without hunger is"
"possible. ... A just world is possible. A new world,"
"which our species eminently deserves, is possible and"
"will become reality."
"I would like to congratulate Mr. Ali"
"Abdussalam Treki on his election to the presidency and"
"reiterate our confidence in his ability to conduct our"
"work and our deliberations successfully. I would also"
"like to recognize the excellent leadership of Father"
"Miguel dEscoto Brockmann, President of the"
"Assembly at its previous session. The ethical"
"dimension and political scope of his presidency have"
"enabled us to move forward towards the goal of"
"restoring to this Assembly all its powers, and will stand"
"as a benchmark for the future. Thanks to his example,"
"it has become even clearer to us now that reforming the"
"United Nations is about democratizing it and bringing"
"it closer to the people."
"Since the general debate of one year ago"
"important events have occurred in the international"
"arena. Climate change is now more visible and"
"dangerous. The economic crisis has become intense"
"and global. Social exclusion has increased."
"However, the international community reacted"
"with profound optimism to the change of Government"
"in the United States. It seemed that a period of extreme"
"aggressiveness, unilateralism and arrogance in the"
"foreign policy of that country had come to an end and"
"the infamous legacy of the George W. Bush regime had"
"crumbled in repudiation. As those in this very Hall can"
"attest, novel and conciliatory words from the White"
"House raised great hopes, and the world welcomed his"
"repeated messages of change, dialogue and"
"cooperation. Unfortunately, time goes by, and those"
"words do not seem to be supported by concrete facts."
"The words do not coincide with reality."
"The most serious and dangerous aspect of this"
"new situation is the uncertainty about the real capacity"
"of the present authorities in Washington to overpower"
"the sweeping political and ideological currents that"
"threatened the world under the previous Administration."
"The neoconservative groups that placed George Bush"
"in the presidency  the powers that promoted the use"
"of force and domination under the protection of the"
"colossal military and economic strength of the United"
"States and that are to blame for crimes including"
"torture, assassination and the manipulation of the"
"American people  have quickly regrouped and retain"
"immense resources of power and influence, contrary to"
"the change proclaimed."
"The detention and torture centre at the"
"Guantnamo Bay Naval Base  which usurps Cuban"
"territory  has not been shut down. The occupation"
"troops in Iraq have not been withdrawn. The war in"
"Afghanistan is expanding and is threatening other"
"States."
"As for Cuba, which has suffered American"
"aggression for half a century, last April the new United"
"States Government announced measures to abolish"
"some of the Bush Administrations most brutal actions"
"that prohibited contact between Cubans living in the"
"United States and their relatives in Cuba, particularly"
"the possibility to visit them and to send assistance"
"without limitations. These measures are a positive step,"
"but they are extremely limited and insufficient."
"The announced measures included authorizing"
"American companies to carry out certain"
"telecommunications operations with Cuba, but other"
"restrictions that prevent the implementation of those"
"operations have not been modified. Nor has there been"
"any sign that the United States Government is ready to"
"put an end to the immoral practice  which has"
"recently increased  of misappropriating Cuban funds"
"frozen in American banks, as well as other goods,"
"under the protection of venal judges who violate their"
"own laws."
"The essential fact is that the economic,"
"commercial and financial blockade of Cuba remains in"
"place. The United States President, despite the"
"existence of laws such as the Helms-Burton Act, still"
"has broad executive powers, such as the granting of"
"licenses, by means of which he could modify the"
"implementation of the blockade."
"If there were a true desire for change, the United"
"States Government could authorize the export of Cuban"
"goods and services to the United States and vice versa."
"The United States could allow Cuba to buy anywhere"
"in the world products comprised of more than 10 per"
"cent American components or technology, regardless of"
"trademark or country of origin. The United States"
"Department of the Treasury could refrain from"
"pursuing, freezing and confiscating third-country"
"transfers in United States dollars and other currencies"
"to Cuban nationals or entities. Washington could lift"
"the ban preventing third-country vessels from docking"
"at any American port until 180 days after calling at any"
"Cuban port. The Treasury Departments persecution of"
"financial institutions and companies that trade with or"
""
""
"17 09-52598"
""
"carry out operations in Cuba could also be suspended."
"President Obama could allow American citizens, by"
"means of a license, to travel to Cuba  the only"
"country in the world they are not allowed to visit."
"The Secretary-Generals report to the Assembly"
"(A/64/97) abounds with examples. In the course of"
"2009 numerous fines, confiscations and other"
"hindrances have been levelled at trade carried out by"
"Cuba or by third countries with Cuba. As the United"
"States Treasury Department itself has reported, since"
"January this year almost half of the funds collected by"
"its Office of Foreign Assets Control came from"
"sanctions imposed on American and foreign companies"
"for alleged violations of the economic blockade against"
"Cuba."
"The true and indisputable fact is that the new"
"American Government continues to ignore the"
"international communitys overwhelming appeal,"
"expressed in this Assembly year after year, to put an"
"end to the blockade of Cuba. Two weeks ago President"
"Obama instructed the Secretaries of State and the"
"Treasury that, contrary to what is reflected in all"
"American opinion polls, it is in the national interest"
"to maintain economic sanctions against Cuba under the"
"Trading with the Enemy Act  a law enacted in 1917"
"to address wartime situations and which is today"
"applied only to Cuba. The United States blockade of"
"Cuba is an act of unilateral aggression that should be"
"unilaterally terminated."
"For many years Cuba has expressed its"
"willingness to normalize relations with the United"
"States. On 1 August 2009, President Ral Castro Ruz"
"publicly reiterated Cubas readiness to participate in a"
"respectful dialogue, between equals, with the United"
"States  a dialogue that assumes our independence,"
"sovereignty and self-determination. He emphasized"
"that we should mutually respect our differences and"
"that Cuba does not recognize that the Government of"
"that or any other country, or any other group of States,"
"has any jurisdiction over our internal affairs."
"The Government of Cuba has suggested to the"
"United States Government a set of essential topics it"
"considers must necessarily be discussed during a future"
"dialogue aimed at improving relations. Those topics"
"include the lifting of the economic, commercial and"
"financial blockade; the removal of Cuba from the"
"spurious list of terrorist countries; the revocation of the"
"Cuban Adjustment Act and of the wet foot, dry foot"
"policy; compensation for economic and human"
"damages; the return of the territory occupied by the"
"Guantnamo Bay Naval Base; the end of all radio and"
"television aggression from United States territory"
"against Cuba; and the cessation of American funding of"
"domestic subversion."
"An essential item on that agenda is the release of"
"the five Cuban anti-terrorism fighters who have been"
"unjustly imprisoned in the United States for 11 years."
"President Obama has the constitutional prerogatives to"
"free them as an act of justice and of his Governments"
"commitment against terrorism."
"The President returned to the Chair."
"Furthermore, we have proposed to the United"
"States to begin talks on setting up cooperation to tackle"
"drug trafficking, terrorism and human smuggling,"
"protect the environment and address natural disasters."
"In that spirit, the Cuban Government has held talks"
"with that of the United States on migration and on the"
"establishment of direct postal services. Those talks"
"have been courteous and useful."
"Cuba enjoys extensive and fruitful relations in all"
"parts of the world. With the single exception of the"
"United States, Cuba has friendly relations with all"
"countries of this hemisphere and counts on the"
"solidarity of the region. We cooperate with dozens of"
"countries of Africa, Asia, Latin America and the"
"Caribbean."
"Ours is a stable country with a united, cultured"
"and healthy people who have amply proven that, even"
"under an embargo, they are capable of facing the"
"consequences of the global economic crisis and the"
"effects of climate change, which last year cost the"
"national economy 20 per cent of its gross domestic"
"product."
"Conditions in Cuba are such that it can face its"
"own problems and find solutions to them. We do so in a"
"just and fair society that relies on its own efforts and"
"has been able to advance and guide its development in"
"the most adverse conditions. We are ready to continue"
"facing those challenges calmly and patiently, confident"
"that no citizen has been or will be abandoned and"
"certain that we are defending a cause of national"
"independence and a socialist plan that have the huge"
"support of the Cubans. Anyone who tries to stop the"
"revolution and bend the will of the Cuban people is"
"suffering from delusions. Patriotism, social justice and"
""
""
"09-52598 18"
""
"the resolve to defend independence are all part of our"
"national identity."
"Latin America and the Caribbean are in a"
"dramatic situation, characterized by the sharp"
"contradiction between the large majorities  which,"
"together with progressive Governments and broad"
"social movements, are demanding justice and"
"fairness  and the traditional oligarchies committed to"
"preserving their privileges. The coup dtat in"
"Honduras demonstrates that. Those who participated in"
"the coup and the usurpers who kidnapped the"
"legitimate President of that country are violating the"
"constitution and brutally repressing the people, as"
"happened in the dark years of the military dictatorships"
"in Latin America propped up by the United States."
"Hundreds of thousands of assassinated, missing and"
"tortured persons are stirring the conscience of our"
"America in the face of impunity."
"It has still not been explained why the plane that"
"kidnapped the constitutional President of Honduras"
"made a stopover at the American Palmerola air base."
"The American fascist right, which Cheney symbolizes,"
"openly supports and defends the coup. President"
"Jos Manuel Zelaya must be fully, immediately and"
"unconditionally reinstated to the execution of his"
"constitutional duties. The inviolability of the Brazilian"
"Embassy in Tegucigalpa must be respected and the"
"siege of and the attacks on its property must stop. The"
"Honduran people are valiantly resisting and will have"
"the last word."
"Those events coincide with the renewed and"
"aggressive interest of the United States in setting up"
"military bases in Latin America and in re-establishing"
"the Fourth Fleet, clearly with the aim of putting the"
"region within only a few hours reach of American"
"troops, threatening the revolutionary and progressive"
"movements, in particular the Bolivarian revolution in"
"the sister nation of Venezuela, and gaining control of"
"the regions oil and other natural resources."
"The slander and lies against the Bolivarian"
"Republic of Venezuela are brutal. It should be recalled"
"that it was thus when atrocious aggression emerged and"
"was instigated against our fatherland. The broader and"
"clearer the policy towards that sister nation, the more it"
"will contribute to the peace, independence and"
"development of the peoples of Latin America and the"
"Caribbean."
"Latin America and the Caribbean can advance"
"and, to a certain extent, are moving forward to new and"
"higher forms of integration. They have more water,"
"land, forests and mineral and energy resources than any"
"other region of the planet. Their population exceeds"
"570 million. The Rio Group, the Latin American and"
"Caribbean Summit on Integration and Development"
"and the Union of South American Nations are bodies"
"set up by virtue of the ties that unite us. The Bolivarian"
"Alliance for the Peoples of Our Americas and the"
"Petrocaribe cooperation scheme are prime examples."
"The optimistic forecasts from Pittsburgh on the"
"progression of the global economic crisis, which"
"predict a possible economic recovery early next year,"
"are not based on solid data and, at best, only indicate"
"relief from collapse for a very limited group of the"
"worlds most powerful economies. It is worth noting"
"that objectives have been set but not a word has been"
"said about how to achieve them."
"No one should forget that what is involved is an"
"unprecedented crisis of the capitalist system that"
"encompasses the respective food, energy, ecological,"
"social and financial crises. Nor should we overlook the"
"danger of debt combined with inflation, of the bursting"
"of other financial bubbles, or of a second collapse. The"
"developing countries are not to blame, but are the"
"victims of the consequences of the unreasonable and"
"unsustainable model of consumption, exploitation and"
"speculation, the attack on the environment and the"
"corruption in the industrialized economies."
"While the debates go on, the number of hungry"
"people will reach a record figure of 1,020 million in"
"2009  a sixth of the worlds population. This year,"
"another 90 million will be cast into poverty and"
"50 million others into unemployment. During these"
"months, another 400,000 children are expected to die"
"as a result of the crisis."
"The measures that have been adopted are only"
"palliative ones that perpetuate the serious deficiencies"
"of an unjust, exclusive and ecologically unsustainable"
"international economic system. We need a fully"
"comprehensive and inclusive international dialogue"
"with the active participation of all developing"
"countries. We need to establish a new international"
"economic order based on solidarity, justice, equality"
"and sustainable development. The international"
"financial architecture should be founded anew. The"
""
""
"19 09-52598"
""
"United Nations, particularly this General Assembly, is"
"called upon to play a key role in this endeavour."
"In conclusion, I reiterate Cubas gratitude for the"
"traditional and invaluable solidarity it has received"
"from this General Assembly in its struggle against"
"aggression and the blockade. Today, that solidarity"
"remains as indispensable as ever."
"As Commander in Chief Fidel Castro Ruz said"
"from this very rostrum nine years ago:"
"Nothing in the existing economic and"
"political order serves the interests of humankind."
"Thus this order is unsustainable and must be"
"changed. Suffice it to say that the world has"
"already more than 6 billion inhabitants, 80 per"
"cent of whom live in poverty. Ages-old diseases"
"of the third world  diseases such as malaria,"
"tuberculosis and others equally lethal  have not"
"been eradicated, while new epidemics like AIDS"
"threaten to exterminate the population of entire"
"nations  Meanwhile, wealthy countries keep"
"devoting enormous amounts of money to military"
"expenses and to buy luxury items, and a"
"voracious plague of speculators exchange"
"currencies, stocks and other real or fictitious"
"values for trillions of dollars every day."
"Nature is being devastated. The climate is"
"changing under our own eyes, and drinking water"
"is increasingly contaminated or scarce. The seas,"
"a source of human sustenance, are being depleted,"
"and crucial non-renewable resources are being"
"wasted on luxury and vanities "
"The dream of having truly fair and sensible"
"norms to guide human destiny seems impossible"
"to many. However, we are convinced that the"
"struggle for the impossible should be the motto of"
"this institution that brings us together today."
"(A/55/PV.4, p. 20)"
"Despite everything, the fiftieth anniversary of the"
"Cuban Revolution is being celebrated victoriously and"
"with pride."
"Yesterday was exactly the fiftieth anniversary"
"of the first speech of Commander in Chief Fidel Castro"
"Ruz in this Hall, with that memorable sentence that if"
"the philosophy of plunder disappears, then the"
"philosophy of war will have disappeared (see"
"A/PV.872)."
""
""
"10-55122 46"
""
"Sixty million people had to die in the Second"
"World War so that the leaders of the time could create"
"the United Nations with the aim of saving succeeding"
"generations from the scourge of war."
"Today, the children and grandchildren of that"
"generation realize that the human race is faced with the"
"threat of extinction. Within a few decades, the"
"degradation of living conditions on the planet will be"
"irreversible. The same could happen in a few hours if"
"only a small part of the nuclear arsenal were to be"
"used. Those who met in San Francisco to draft the"
"Charter of the United Nations could not have imagined"
"the threat now posed by global warming or the nuclear"
"winter."
"While we deliberate here, as Comrade Fidel has"
"warned, powerful and influential forces in the United"
"States and Israel are paving the way to launch a"
"military attack against the Islamic Republic of Iran."
"For its part, the Security Council, possibly under the"
"illusion of preventing that, is going ahead with"
"applying sanctions against that country, which,"
"together with the unilateral sanctions illegally imposed"
"by a group of States, seek to strangle the Iranian"
"economy."
"The recent and politically biased report issued by"
"the Director General of the International Atomic"
"Energy Agency has contributed to increasing the"
"tensions and has provided a pretext for military"
"escalation. Should that aggression in fact materialize, it"
"would be a crime against the Iranian people and an"
"assault against peace and international law that could"
"ignite a conflict that will certainly turn nuclear. The"
"toll would be millions of lives and the impact on the"
"environment, the economy and world stability"
"incalculable."
"Who could assert otherwise, and on the basis of"
"what guarantees? How could it be argued that the"
"present course of events is distancing the planet from"
"war in the Middle East? The threat is too serious to"
"trust in the capacity of the Security Council, where the"
"main actor responsible for the crisis has relied on its"
"ability to impose its designs."
"The wars against Iraq and Afghanistan"
"demonstrate that we cannot entrust one or a few"
"Governments with the authority to decide when all"
"diplomatic steps to prevent a war have been exhausted,"
"when the use of force becomes unavoidable, and when"
"the death of hundreds of thousands or millions of"
"people and the destabilization of a large area of the"
"planet  or all these things together  are inevitable."
"Sanctions, sieges and conflict are not the way to"
"preserve international peace and security. On the"
"contrary, dialogue, negotiation and adherence to the"
"principle of the sovereign equality of States are the"
"only way to avoid war."
"Cuba commends and encourages the efforts of all"
"those countries, such as China, Russia, Brazil and"
"Turkey, that strive to find peaceful solutions, and calls"
"on the international community to support such"
"initiatives. It is the duty of this General Assembly to"
"officially support those efforts."
"The United Nations must be radically reformed"
"and the powers of this General Assembly restored. The"
"Security Council must be recreated. It must be"
"reiterated that the Secretary-General and all senior"
"officials of the international agencies, including the"
"International Atomic Energy Agency, answer to all"
"Member States, as set out in clear mandates adopted in"
"accordance with the Charter and the rules of procedure."
"The serious threat posed by nuclear weapons will be"
"solved only with their total elimination and prohibition."
"The manipulation surrounding non-proliferation  based"
"on double standards and political interest, the existence of"
"a club of the privileged and the denial to the countries of"
"the South of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy  must"
"stop. We urge the United States, the main nuclear Power,"
"to stop opposing the negotiation of binding agreements"
"that could rid us once and for all of this threat within a set"
"time frame. Given the great lethal power and the ongoing"
"development of conventional weapons, we will also have"
"to fight for complete and general disarmament."
"In order to move ahead on those tasks, the"
"Non-Aligned Movement submitted a proposal that has"
"gone unheeded. The proposal envisages a plan of"
"action that includes the establishment of nuclear-"
"weapon-free zones. It is urgent to establish such a zone"
"in the Middle East, where Israel is the only country"
"that opposes it. Success in this effort would contribute"
"significantly to dispelling the threats of conflict and"
"nuclear proliferation and to achieving lasting peace in"
"that region."
"The floods that have affected Pakistan, Central"
"America and many other countries in the most diverse"
"latitudes, as well as the droughts and extreme"
"temperatures that have devastated Russia, are a tragic"
"reminder of the threats of a climate out of balance. In"
""
""
"47 10-55122"
""
"the face of such a serious threat, no selfish interests or"
"narrow political agendas that prevent the adoption of"
"concrete and binding agreements at the next"
"Conference of the Parties to the United Nations"
"Framework Convention on Climate Change should"
"prevail. The developed countries, which bear the"
"greatest responsibility for global warming, should"
"accept more ambitious goals for reducing greenhouse"
"gas emissions and refrain from destroying the"
"framework established by the Convention and its"
"Kyoto Protocol."
"It would be very irresponsible of the"
"Governments of the industrialized countries to ignore"
"the legitimate claims of the non-governmental"
"organizations and social movements that were brutally"
"suppressed in Copenhagen and later met in"
"Cochabamba barely five months ago to defend Mother"
"Earth, or to again seek to deceive public opinion by"
"blaming the emerging economies."
"We call for the full support of the international"
"community for Venezuela in its struggle. The victory in"
"yesterdays parliamentary elections demonstrates the"
"broad majority support of the people for President"
"Chvez and the Bolivarian revolution, which have"
"suffered North American interference and the scorn and"
"disinformation campaigns of the oligarchic groups and"
"media empires."
"Now that the television cameras have left Haiti,"
"we call for the pledges of international assistance to be"
"honoured. The noble Haitian people need resources for"
"reconstruction and, above all, for development."
"The United States Government is aware of Cubas"
"readiness to coexist in a climate of peace, respect and"
"sovereign equality, which we have expressly conveyed"
"through official channels and which I reiterate here on"
"behalf of President Ral Castro. I am convinced that"
"the development of relations based on international law"
"and the purposes and principles of the United Nations"
"would enable Cuba and the United States to address"
"many of their differences and to resolve others. It"
"would help to create an atmosphere conducive to trying"
"to solve the problems of our region and, at the same"
"time, provide significant support to the interests of our"
"respective peoples."
"The agenda for dialogue and bilateral cooperation"
"initiatives submitted to President Obamas Administration"
"on 14 July 2009, which I publicly announced in this Hall"
"exactly a year ago (see A/64/PV.11), have yet to receive a"
"response. The North American Government has shown no"
"willingness to address essential matters on the bilateral"
"agenda, so the official talks that have been held without"
"great progress have been limited to specific issues."
"Contrary to expectations, even within the United"
"States itself, its Government does not seem willing to"
"amend even the most irrational and universally rejected"
"aspects of its policy against Cuba. The main element in"
"our bilateral relations is the economic, commercial and"
"financial blockade that the United States Government"
"imposes against my country directly and through the"
"extraterritorial application of its laws. The blockade"
"has been the subject of 18 resolutions that, with the"
"almost unanimous support of Member States, have"
"consistently called for its end."
"However, in the past two years, there has been no"
"change in the policy of blockade and subversion"
"against Cuba, even though all know that the President"
"of that country is vested with sufficient authority to"
"make real change and enjoys the broad majority"
"support of the North American people in that respect."
"For United States citizens or foreigners residing"
"in that country, travelling to Cuba remains illegal. It is"
"impossible to sell Cuban products or products"
"containing Cuban components or technology to the"
"United States. With very limited exceptions, Cuba is"
"forbidden to acquire, here or in any other country, any"
"product containing a fraction of American input or"
"technology. Financial transactions in United States"
"dollars, whether linked to Cuba or not, can be either"
"confiscated or frozen and the banks involved may be"
"fined. Fines worth several millions are imposed on"
"United States and foreign companies for violating the"
"venal blockade laws."
"In addition, and in open contradiction of"
"international norms, Cubas broadcasting space"
"continues to be violated and radio and television"
"broadcasts continue to be used for subversive purposes,"
"while millions in federal funds are used to foment"
"political instability in my country. Part of Cubas"
"territory has been seized by the United States, which"
"has imposed a military base in Guantnamo that has"
"become a centre of torture beyond the jurisdiction of"
"international humanitarian law."
"United States immigration policy towards Cuba,"
"based on the Cuban Adjustment Act, is a politically"
"motivated exception that encourages illegal migration"
"and costs human lives. Cubas inclusion on the United"
""
""
"10-55122 48"
""
"States spurious list of countries that sponsor"
"international terrorism is deeply immoral."
"Our demand, and the universal appeal concerning"
"it, is well known. The five Cuban anti-terrorists who"
"have been incarcerated in the United States for 12 years"
"as political prisoners must be immediately released."
"Setting them free would be an act of justice that would"
"enable President Obama to show his true commitment to"
"combating terrorism in our own hemisphere."
"The President of the United States still has the"
"opportunity to make a historical rectification of an"
"utterly futile 50-year genocidal policy left over from"
"the cold war. It would be an act of resolve that could"
"only encourage the support of those who elected him"
"for change and of the community of nations that votes"
"for it every year. Whatever the circumstances, the"
"Cuban revolution will unyieldingly and tenaciously"
"pursue the sovereign path chosen by our people and"
"shall not cease in its endeavours, based on the precepts"
"of Mart and Fidel, to overcome all injustice."
"I am pleased to welcome the Government of"
"South Sudan as a State Member of the United Nations."
"I also join the appeal by all African leaders for an"
"urgent, effective and international response to the"
"famine in the Horn of Africa."
"While we are engaged in debate here, in Libya"
"another preventive war is taking place under the"
"pretext of protecting civilians. The United States and"
"NATO, supposedly to avoid a massacre, launched a"
"military attack against a sovereign State without there"
"being any threat whatsoever to international peace and"
"security. They unleashed a regime change operation."
"NATO imposed on the Security Council a dubious"
"resolution authorizing"
"Member States  acting nationally or through"
"regional organizations or arrangements  to take"
"all necessary measures  to protect civilians and"
"civilian populated areas under threat of attack"
"(resolution 1973 (2011), para. 4)."
"Afterwards, NATO violated this same resolution"
"in order to supply weapons, provide financing to one"
"party and deploy operatives and diplomatic personnel"
"on the ground. Now everybody has a better"
"understanding of what the concept of responsibility to"
"protect means and how it can be used. In this war, in"
"addition to the most advanced and lethal military"
"technologies, the means of communication have been"
"used as weapons of war by financial and media"
"businesses, which are profiteering from the war and the"
"reconstruction operations, as if they were agents of"
"crisis containment."
"As early as 21 February, Commander-in-Chief"
"Fidel Castro Ruz warned that NATO was irrevocably"
"preparing a war against Libya. Since then, Cuba has"
"engaged indefatigably in the defence not of a"
"Government but of a principle. It is unacceptable to"
"assassinate thousands of innocent people under the"
"dubious purpose of protecting other civilians. History"
"has eloquently demonstrated that peace cannot be"
"imposed either by war or by force. It is up to the"
"Libyan people alone to choose their destiny, without"
"foreign intervention, in the exercise of their right to"
"self-determination, independence and sovereignty over"
"their natural resources and their countrys territorial"
"integrity."
"The military intervention in Libya and the"
"growing threat against Syria have been the"
"opportunistic, defensive responses of the United States"
"and Europe to the collapse of their system of"
"domination and plunder in North Africa and the Middle"
"East and to the emergence of genuinely popular"
"movements in Tunisia, Egypt and other countries, in"
"order to secure huge reserves of oil and water and to"
"confiscate financial assets in times of global economic"
"and social crisis. It is the responsibility of the General"
"Assembly to exercise its full powers to prevent a"
"military aggression against Syria. The public should be"
"have objective information and speak up against war."
"President Barack Obama, in his threatening,"
"deceitful, rhetorical speeches of 20 and 21 September,"
"described what happened in Libya as a new model. He"
"said,"
"This is how the international community should"
"work in the twenty-first century. More nations are"
"assuming the responsibility and the costs of"
"meeting global challenges. In fact, this is the very"
"purpose of the United Nations. So every nation"
"represented here today can take pride in the"
"innocent lives we saved and in helping Libyans"
"reclaim their country. It was the right thing to"
"do."
"A top White House official wrote in Foreign"
"Affairs magazine that the new United States strategy is"
"more efficient and less costly. The Bush Administration"
"strategy considered occupation; the Obama Administration"
"strategy is that of national liberation. The military"
"intervention strategy in Libya could also be applied in"
"other cases."
"With absolute cynicism, what is proposed is a"
"military aggression without casualties or the use of"
"infantry troops, the costs of which would be mainly"
"borne by Europe. The destabilization of a country"
""
""
"11-51390 14"
""
"through subversion, covert operations and economic"
"sanctions is described, according to this doctrine, as"
"the development of a national movement. That new"
"regime-change operations model shows that current"
"United States and NATO military doctrines are even"
"more aggressive than their previous ones, and that the"
"so called Euro-Atlantic periphery comprises the entire"
"planet."
"No one should doubt that Latin America and the"
"Caribbean are included in that concept. The"
"redeployment of the Fourth Fleet, the installation of"
"American bases, troops and military means to intervene"
"anywhere in the region, the coup dtat against"
"Venezuela in 2002, followed by an oil coup, the"
"sedition in Santa Cruz, Bolivia, the military coup in"
"Honduras and the attempted coup in Ecuador all fit"
"perfectly in the new strategy."
"Can the United States and NATO guarantee today"
"that the use of force and this concept of regime change"
"do not apply in the case of Latin American and"
"Caribbean countries that do not submit to their"
"interests? Can the European Union say something"
"about it? What would the United Nations do in such a"
"situation?"
"The weakness of the global economy, particularly"
"the economies of the United States and Europe,"
"continues to show that the economic crisis that began"
"in the year 2008 has not yet been overcome. In"
"developed countries, the terrible burden of its"
"consequences is borne by workers, the unemployed,"
"immigrants and the poor, who are brutally repressed"
"whenever they peacefully defend their rights."
"We, the countries of the South, repeatedly"
"plundered, suffer the distortions of a world economic"
"order that excludes our legitimate interests. We suffer"
"under the onerous impact of protectionism and the"
"steady increase in the prices of foodstuffs and"
"hydrocarbons. The peoples of many developing"
"countries are victims of the bankrupt neoliberal"
"economic model and its sequel of plunder and"
"exclusion. The social and political consequences are"
"being felt on all continents."
"In the face of a global economic crisis and the"
"depletion of the planets natural resources, what will be"
"the response of the extremist right-wing forces that are"
"already in power or may come to power as a result of"
"the afflictions and hopelessness of voters? In the face"
"of a growing and universal danger of war, of a new"
"division of the world and of climate change, could we,"
"the countries of the South, act together as an essential"
"condition of our salvation?"
"In the face of so many serious threats, Latin"
"America and the Caribbean  the region of Bolvar"
"and Mart  is coming together, determined to finish"
"what they left unfinished. It is impossible to divide us"
"or to turn us against each other. The Bolivarian"
"Alliance for the Peoples of Our America is a small but"
"morally powerful group of peoples, and the new"
"Community of Latin American and Caribbean States is"
"a fact. The full strength of the Andes will very soon be"
"expressed in a summit, which will be an epoch-making"
"event in Caracas  the epicentre of independence in"
"the Americas, where a Bolivarian people has conquered"
"power and a continental leader, President Hugo Chvez"
"Fras, is ever growing."
"More than ever, we have to defend the United"
"Nations, but the biggest challenge will be to turn it into"
"an organization that serves the legitimate interests of"
"all States, instead of catering to the arbitrary wishes"
"and abuses of a few rich and powerful countries. We"
"must see to it that international law and the purposes"
"and principles of the United Nations Charter prevail in"
"the face of the brute force that aims to block them. It is"
"necessary to re-establish the leading role of the General"
"Assembly and to recast the Security Council."
"The General Assembly has the inescapable moral,"
"political and legal obligation to ensure the recognition"
"of an independent Palestinian State, with the"
"boundaries established before 1967 and with East"
"Jerusalem as its capital, as a full Member of the United"
"Nations. This should be accomplished with or without"
"the Security Council, with or without the veto of the"
"United States and with or without new peace"
"negotiations."
"If the inalienable right of the Palestinian people"
"to independence, sovereignty and self-determination is"
"recognized; if the need to re-establish the exercise of"
"the human rights of Palestinians is recognized; if the"
"blockade of Gaza, the economic coercion and"
"segregation symbolized by the infamous wall are"
"recognized as crimes; if the subjugation of a nation to"
"conditions jeopardizing its very existence is described"
"as genocide; if all Member States are supposed to"
"adopt all legal measures within their reach to protect"
"Palestinian civilians, then the General Assembly should"
"take action now."
""
""
"15 11-51390"
""
"Cuba, a country with a small Jewish community,"
"condemns the historical injustice of anti-Semitism, the"
"crime against humanity that was the Holocaust, and"
"recognizes the right of the State of Israel to exist. Our"
"people harbour only fraternal feelings towards the"
"Israeli people, who are also victims of this conflict."
"Cuba likewise proclaims that the United States"
"has the moral, political and legal obligation to stop its"
"continual veto of Security Council resolutions intended"
"to protect the Palestinian civilians."
"The European Union should oppose this veto and"
"abstain from supporting the empires brutal pressure on"
"members of this Assembly and the Council itself."
"Europe should denounce it also because it is certain"
"that those crimes would not be occurring without the"
"military supplies, financial support and impunity that"
"the United States provides to the Government of Israel."
"On 11 September 2001, we Cubans shared the"
"pain of the American people at those atrocious terrorist"
"acts. We offered selfless solidarity, encouragement and"
"cooperation. As always, Cuba made crystal-clear"
"statements against terrorism and against war."
"Ten years later, the world is even more insecure,"
"because instead of turning international consensus"
"against terrorism into a system of international"
"cooperation to confront it, the United States invaded"
"and occupied Iraq and Afghanistan, causing the loss of"
"life of hundreds of thousands of persons and pain to"
"tens of millions. It was not possible to hide the use of"
"deception, torture, extrajudicial executions or"
"assassinations, disappearances of individuals, arbitrary"
"detentions and the secret renditions and prisons of the"
"Central Intelligence Agency in Europe and other"
"regions."
"The Government of the United States desecrates"
"the memory of the victims of 11 September when it"
"continues the prolonged inhumane imprisonment of the"
"five Cuban anti-terrorist fighters who were unjustly"
"condemned, in spurious trials, to sentences of"
"maximum severity for seeking information about the"
"terrorist activities of groups that have operated with"
"absolute impunity from United States territory against"
"Cuba, leading to the death of or physical harm to 5,577"
"of our citizens. Once again, with all due respect, I urge"
"President Obama to make use of his powers to release"
"them as an act of justice or as a humanitarian gesture,"
"which would be highly appreciated by their children,"
"wives, mothers, fathers and all of our people."
"The Cuban Government reiterates its interest and"
"willingness to move towards the normalization of"
"relations with the United States. Today I reiterate the"
"proposal to begin a dialogue aimed at solving bilateral"
"problems, including humanitarian issues, as well as our"
"offer to negotiate several cooperation agreements"
"concerning drug-trafficking, terrorism, human"
"smuggling, natural disasters and protection of the"
"environment, including in the event of oil spills such as"
"the one that occurred at the British Petroleum platform"
"in the Gulf of Mexico."
"However, we know that the electoral race has"
"already begun in this country, while the economic"
"situation is growing worse."
"The economic, commercial and financial"
"blockade of Cuba has been tightened. The damages it"
"has caused have totalled $975 billion, based on the"
"current price of gold. The attempt to subvert the"
"constitutional order that Cubans have freely elected is"
"intensifying. There is increasing pressure from the"
"extreme right and the Cuban-American mafia to"
"reverse the minimal steps adopted by the American"
"Government to promote, to some degree, links between"
"Cuban migrs and their home country and exchanges"
"between both peoples."
"In Cuba, President Ral Castro Ruz has reiterated"
"that we will continue, in our own sovereign way, to"
"change everything that needs to be changed in order to"
"make our economy more efficient and our socialism"
"better, to achieve full justice and to be able to fully"
"preserve our independence."
"As Mart said, The southern sea will join the sea"
"of the north and a serpent will hatch from the egg of an"
"eagle before we cease our struggle to make the"
"homeland free and prosperous."
"Never before have Latin America and the Caribbean"
"expressed themselves with such strength and unity as"
"they did at the Summit of the Americas, held last April"
"in Cartagena de Indias, Colombia. Once again, Cuba"
"was excluded at the insistence of the United States."
"Argentine sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands, which"
"our country fervently supports, and the lifting of the"
"blockade against Cuba were the focus of a declaration"
"that demonstrated that the American homeland"
"envisaged by Bolivar  our America as envisaged by Marti  has entered a new era: the century of its"
"ultimate independence."
"Some months prior, the Community of Latin"
"American and Caribbean States (CELAC) held its"
"inaugural summit meeting in Caracas. No other"
"institutional entity in our hemisphere in the course of"
"the last century is of such major importance, wrote"
"the leader of the Cuban Revolution, Fidel Castro Ruz,"
"about CELAC. We know that CELAC still has not yet"
"reached its full development, so that our peoples can"
"go forward in ranks as compact as the veins of silver"
"in the roots of the Andes. But Latin America and the"
"Caribbean have definitively changed, and they are"
"prepared to make a greater contribution to the world"
"order. However, the threats, dangers and obstacles"
"should not be underestimated."
"The policy of the United States with regard to"
"our region, under both Democratic and Republican"
"Administrations, has been essentially the same. The"
"promises made by the current President in 2009 have"
"gone unfulfilled. Tireless efforts have been made to"
"control our wealth, to impose their models, culture and"
"ideas, and to interfere in our internal affairs. Despite"
"talk of intelligent power and the use of fabulous new"
"technology, the focus remains on security and military"
"deployment, rather than on democratic and mutually"
"beneficial relations between equal, sovereign States."
"In the circumstances of a global economic crisis,"
"the depletion of resources and the shifting balances in"
"the world, NATO continues to perceive our region as"
"a mere periphery of the Euro-Atlantic area, in which"
"it might intervene to protect its interests, however"
"illegitimate."
"The upcoming elections in the sister nation of the"
"Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela will be decisive"
"for the shared destiny of our region. We would like"
"to express to the Venezuelan people and their leader,"
"President Chvez Fras, our full solidarity in the face of"
"the looming attempts at destabilization. The governing"
"powers in the United States would be making a very"
"serious mistake of untold consequences if they were"
"to attempt to reverse by force the social achievements"
"attained by our peoples."
"Cuba has continuously contributed to peace in"
"Colombia, with discretion and modesty. We fully"
"supported the confidential exploratory talks held"
"throughout this year in Havana, and we will continue to"
"do so as a guarantor and host of the upcoming process of dialogue between the Colombian Government and"
"the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia."
"Our America will remain mutilated as long as"
"Puerto Rico, a Latin American and Caribbean nation,"
"lacks its independence  a cause that we fully support."
"Todays world is in no way similar to the one"
"that was envisioned by those who drafted the United"
"Nations Charter, over the ashes left by the Second"
"World War, when they expressed their determination to"
"save our generations from the scourge of war; protect"
"the fundamental rights of human beings and equality"
"among all nations, large and small; and promote justice,"
"dignity and social progress. Today, the overthrow of"
"Governments through the use of force and violence is"
"being blatantly encouraged. Regime change is being"
"imposed from Washington and other NATO capitals,"
"and wars of conquest are being waged for the control"
"of natural resources and areas of strategic importance."
"The Governments of the United States and some"
"European countries have decided to overthrow the"
"Syrian Government. To that end, they have armed,"
"financed and trained opposition groups, and turned to"
"the use of mercenaries."
"Owing mainly to the firm opposition of Russia"
"and China, it has not been possible to manipulate the"
"Security Council into imposing the interventionist"
"formula that has been applied in the context of recent"
"bellicose ventures."
"Cuba reaffirms the right of the Syrian people to"
"the full exercise of its right to self-determination and"
"sovereignty without interference or foreign intervention"
"of any sort. The violence, massacres and terrorist acts,"
"which have taken a high toll in innocent lives, must"
"cease. The trafficking in arms and money f lows that"
"helps fund insurgent groups, as well as the shameful"
"manipulation of reality by the media, must also come"
"to an end."
"It is the duty of the General Assembly to make use of"
"the means at its disposal to promote a peaceful solution"
"to the current situation, which is destroying that Arab"
"country, and prevent foreign military aggression, which"
"would have serious consequences for the entire Middle"
"East region."
"The General Assembly should act with resolve and"
"recognize the Palestinian State as a full Member of the"
"United Nations, within the borders established prior"
"to 1967 and with East Jerusalem as its capital; and it should do so now, with or without the consent of the"
"Security Council; with or without a United States veto;"
"and with or without new peace negotiations."
"The global economic crisis, which is having a"
"particularly strong impact on Europe, reflects the"
"inability of Governments and institutions to solve a"
"problem that requires a rethinking of the basic tenets of"
"the current system of international economic relations,"
"which serves only to pillage underdeveloped countries."
"The harsh consequences of the crisis in the"
"developed world and the failed policies adopted so far"
"in an attempt to stop it continue to be borne by workers,"
"the increasing number of unemployed, immigrants and"
"the poor, whose protest movements are being brutally"
"repressed. The predicted increase in food prices as a"
"result of the drought that is affecting much of North"
"America threatens to exacerbate global food insecurity."
"Environmental destruction is also worsening."
"The loss of biodiversity and of the natural balance"
"of ecosystems is accelerating; and the growing"
"irrationality of production and consumption patterns,"
"the marginalization of more than half of the worlds"
"population and the lack of comprehensive measures to"
"halt climate change pose an ever-increasing risk to the"
"physical integrity of entire nations, particularly small"
"island States."
"In the face of those colossal challenges, we wonder"
"if anything could ever justify the fact that, 20 years"
"after the end of the so-called Cold War, military budgets"
"have almost doubled, reaching the astronomical figure"
"of $1.74 trillion. As President Ral Castro Ruz asked,"
"against what enemies will those weapons be used? Will"
"they be used to eliminate the masses of poor people"
"who can no longer tolerate their poverty, or to halt the"
"unstoppable migrations of survivors?"
"Under these circumstances, it is urgent to save the"
"United Nations and subject it to deep-seated reform, so"
"as to put it at the service of all, equally sovereign States"
"and free it from the arbitrariness and double standards"
"of a handful of industrialized and powerful countries."
"International law and the purposes and principles of"
"the Charter of the United Nations should be resolutely"
"enforced; the key role of the General Assembly should"
"be restored; and a democratic, transparent and truly"
"representative Security Council should be relaunched."
"The Summit of Non-Aligned Countries was"
"successfully held in Tehran and reaffirmed the Movements positions in defence of peace, independence"
"and the sovereign equality of States; justice; the right"
"to development; sovereignty over natural resources;"
"general and complete disarmament, particularly"
"nuclear disarmament; and the right to the peaceful use"
"of nuclear energy. We have pledged our full support to"
"the chairmanship of the Movement."
"On July 31, the State Department of the United"
"States included Cuba once again on its unilateral,"
"arbitrary list of States that sponsor international"
"terrorism. The true motive behind the inclusion of Cuba"
"on that spurious list is to fabricate pretexts to increase"
"the persecution of Cuba with respect to its financial"
"transactions and justify the policy of blockade, which"
"has caused immense human and economic harm"
"totalling $1 trillion, based on the current value of gold."
"The United States does not have the slightest moral"
"or political authority to judge Cuba.It is well known"
"that the United States Government has resorted to State"
"terrorism as a weapon in its policy against Cuba, which"
"has caused the deaths of 3,478 of our compatriots and"
"injured another 2,099. It is also harbouring dozens"
"of terrorists, some of whom live in freedom in that"
"country, and continues with the prolonged, inhumane"
"imprisonment and cruel and arbitrary retention on its"
"territory of the five Cuban anti-terrorists."
"Cuba strongly rejects the use of so sensitive an issue"
"as terrorism to pursue political goals and calls for the"
"United States Government to stop lying and put an end"
"to this shameful exercise, which is an outrage against"
"the Cuban people, the North American victims and the"
"international community and discredits the cause of the"
"struggle against terrorism."
"We reiterate to the United States, on the eve of"
"the elections in that country, our irrevocable yearning"
"for peace and our interest in moving towards the"
"normalization of bilateral relations through dialogue,"
"on an equal footing and with absolute respect for our"
"independence."
"With absolute certainty, our people, come what"
"may, with all and for the well-being of all, will continue"
"on the path they have already chosen until they have"
"achieved full justice."
"I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Community"
"of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC),"
"over which Cuba currently has the honour to preside. I"
"reiterate our satisfaction at the election of Ambassador"
"John Ashe of Antigua and Barbuda as President of the"
"General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. I also"
"reiterate our willingness to cooperate with him for the"
"success of this session. It is an honour for CELAC to"
"see a representative from one of its member States,"
"in particular a Caribbean nation, preside over this"
"preeminent body of the United Nations."
NA
"Over the coming weeks, I will also speak to the"
"Assembly about the heroic struggles of Cuba, its"
"resistance and triumphs, the immense efforts of its"
"people, its fidelity to principles, its revolutionary"
"transformations and the perfection of Cuban socialism."
NA
"As the first genuinely Latin American and"
"Caribbean organization that includes all of the countries"
"in the region, CELAC was founded with the purpose"
"of making progress in the political, economic, social"
"and cultural unity and integration of our America, so"
"as to reclaim the dream of our liberators of a nation of"
"republics that, with its almost 600 million inhabitants,"
"its resources and its enormous human and economic"
"potential, can decide autonomously its own destiny."
NA
"The countries of our region share the conviction"
"that the political, economic, social and cultural unity"
"and integration of Latin America and the Caribbean"
"constitute not only a fundamental aspiration of our"
"peoples, but also a prerequisite for us to successfully"
"tackle the challenges we face as a region. However,"
"everything that has been achieved so far and the path"
"CELAC has chosen underscore the need for our region"
"to have a space of its own to consolidate and project"
"the Latin American and Caribbean identity based on its"
"shared principles and values and on the ideals of unity"
"and democracy for our peoples. It should also reaffirm"
"our commitment to building a more just, equitable and"
"harmonious international order based on respect for"
"international law and the principles of the Charter of the"
"United Nations, and to upholding the sovereignty and"
"the right of each State to build its own political system,"
"free from threat, aggression or unilateral coercive"
"measures and in an environment of peace, stability,"
"justice, democracy and respect for human rights."
NA
"Our Community is based on unrestricted respect"
"for international law, the peaceful settlement of disputes"
"and the prohibition of the use and threat of use of force;"
"on respect for the self-determination, sovereignty and"
"territorial integrity of States and on non-interference in"
"their internal affairs; on the protection and promotion"
"of all human rights, the rule of law, at both the national"
"and the international levels, and democracy; and on our"
"aim to work together for collective prosperity so as to"
"eradicate discrimination, inequality, marginalization,"
"human rights violations and transgressions of the rule"
"of law."
NA
"We reaffirm our regions commitment to"
"international peace and security. We commit to"
"strengthening the climate of peace that prevails in"
"Latin America and the Caribbean and to consolidating"
"a zone of peace that encompasses our region as a"
"whole, whereby disputes between nations are resolved"
"peaceably through dialogue and negotiation or other"
"means, in perfect harmony with international law."
NA
"At the recent High-level Meeting on Nuclear"
"Disarmament (A/68/PV.11), CELAC reiterated its"
"profound concern at the threat posed to humankind"
"by the continued existence of nuclear weapons and"
"their possible use or threat of use, and the urgent need"
"to make progress towards the priority objective of"
"nuclear disarmament and achieve the total and absolute"
"elimination of nuclear weapons. In addition, CELAC"
"member countries presented for the first time a joint"
NA
NA
""
"initiative to the Human Rights Council on the right to"
"peace, which we hope will lead to a declaration on that"
"right for adoption by the General Assembly."
NA
"CELAC has expressed its support in the strongest"
"terms for the legitimate rights of Argentina in the"
"dispute over the sovereignty of the Malvinas Islands."
"The continuing position of our region is that the United"
"Kingdom should agree to reopen negotiations with a"
"view to finding a peaceful and definitive solution to"
"that dispute as soon as possible."
NA
"Our Community reiterates its support for the"
"dialogue under way between the Government of"
"Colombia and the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias"
"de Colombia, which seeks to end the internal conflict"
"that has affected the political, social and economic"
"development of that sister nation for more than 50 years."
"We hope that that initiative will succeed in reaching an"
"agreement in the interests of the Colombian people."
NA
"We would also like to underscore the Latin"
"American and Caribbean character of Puerto Rico"
"and, by taking note of the resolutions on Puerto Rico"
"adopted by the Special Political and Decolonization"
"Committee, to emphasize that that issue is a matter of"
"interest to CELAC."
NA
"We reiterate our absolute condemnation of terrorism"
"and reaffirm our commitment to fighting it in all its"
"forms and manifestations, in keeping with the United"
"Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy. However,"
"at the same time, we strongly reject the unilateral and"
"illegitimate assessments, lists and certifications made"
"by some developed countries that affect countries of"
"our region, in particular those referring to terrorism,"
"drug trafficking, human trafficking and other similar"
"phenomena."
NA
"In recent days, as the situation in Syria has"
"deteriorated, CELAC has reiterated its vocation for"
"peace and its observance of the principles enshrined in"
"the Charter of the United Nations and in international"
"law, including international humanitarian law. It has"
"urged the creation of the conditions necessary for"
"moving towards a negotiated political solution to"
"the Syrian conflict, which has claimed the lives of"
"thousands of innocent people."
NA
"Similarly, CELAC is working to identify"
"independent concepts and mechanisms for cooperation,"
"urging the international community to continue to"
"contribute to the reconstruction and sustainable"
"development of our sister Republic of Haiti, in"
"accordance with the fundamental priorities and needs"
"defined by the Haitian Government and in full respect"
"for its authority and sovereignty and the principles of"
"non-interference in the internal affairs of countries."
NA
"We have defended the sovereignty of the region,"
"including that over our own natural resources,"
"and we have expressed our solidarity with States"
"members of CELAC in the face of harmful acts that"
"violate international law, such as that of 2 July, which"
"threatened the dignity and rights of the President of the"
"Plurinational State of Bolivia, Mr. Evo Morales Ayma,"
"as he returned to La Paz from a visit to a number of"
"European countries."
NA
"Taking into account the diverse processes that"
"have shaped Latin American and Caribbean identity,"
"the Community has also emphasized its intention to"
"become a space that protects the rights to live, thrive"
"and coexist enjoyed by all cultures, races and ethnic"
"groups of the region, as well as the multicultural nature"
"of our peoples and the plurinational character of some"
"of our countries, especially among native communities"
"that are promoting and recreating their historical"
"memory, ancestral knowledge and their experience."
NA
"Almost seven months after he passed away, CELAC"
"today pays a well-deserved tribute to one of its founding"
"members, President Hugo Chvez Fras, who presided"
"over the founding summit of the Community with his"
"vision and mastery. Similarly, CELAC expressed its"
"satisfaction over the election of Pope Francis as the"
"first High Pontiff of the Catholic Church from the Latin"
"American and Caribbean region."
NA
"The global espionage against CELAC member"
"countries violates human rights, the right to privacy, the"
"right of citizens to be informed, and the principles of"
"State sovereignty and international law. It has become"
"a source of concern, and we have taken due note of the"
"statements made in various forums by Heads of States"
"and Government and other leaders of Latin American"
"and Caribbean countries who have condemned and"
"rejected the use of such practices."
NA
"The member States of CELAC are proud of their"
"shared work in consolidating our regional sovereignty so"
"that the Latin America and Caribbean region can occupy"
"its rightful place in the world and renounce its status"
"as the most inequal region on Earth. In pursuing these"
"objectives, we have decided to offer the most vulnerable"
"countries of the region our cooperation and solidarity"
"and to draw attention to the special vulnerabilities"
NA
NA
""
"of the countries of the Caribbean Community, given"
"their status as small island developing States, which"
"limits their efforts towards sustainable development,"
"especially in light of the significant impact of natural"
"disasters and the negative effects of climate change."
NA
"With regard to the indispensable reform of the"
"international system, we have renewed our countries"
"commitment to multilateralism, the comprehensive"
"reform of the United Nations system, and the"
"democratization of international decision-making"
"forums, in particular the Security Council. We shall act"
"accordingly on issues of equal importance, among them"
"the process of formulating the post-2015 development"
"agenda, which is the theme of this general debate and"
"to which all CELAC member countries attach great"
"importance."
NA
"The members of CELAC know that there can be"
"no lasting peace without development and without"
"combating poverty, hunger and inequality. We are"
"aware of the challenges that the current international"
"economic and financial crisis poses to the future of our"
"region and our legitimate aspirations to social inclusion,"
"equitable growth with sustainable development, and"
"integration. We therefore emphasize the importance"
"for the post-2015 development agenda to consist of"
"voluntary, universal, clear and quantifiable goals"
"that can be adapted to distinct national realities, with"
"the purpose of eradicating poverty and promoting"
"sustainable development. This new framework should"
"be inclusive and transparent on official development"
"assistance, prompt the developed countries to honour"
"their commitments, and encourage South-South and"
"triangular cooperation on cross-cutting issues through"
"the participation of all sectors of society."
NA
"With regard to climate change, we welcome the"
"formal adoption of the second phase of commitments"
"under the Kyoto Protocol, despite a lack of political"
"will on the part of a number of developed nations that"
"vetoed agreements on new, additional and predictable"
"resources and on mechanisms for the effective transfer"
"of technologies to developing countries. We will"
"continue to work together to cope with this scourge that"
"affects humankind as a whole today."
NA
"There are many difficulties, but the important"
"thing is that the countries of Latin American and the"
"Caribbean have come to the conclusion that the time"
"has come for the region, as Jos Mart said, to walk in"
"close ranks, like silver in the roots of the Andes. That is"
"why we created CELAC."
"We live in a globalized world that is moving towards"
"multipolarity in an age characterized by the threat to"
"the survival of the human species. The United States"
"Government and NATO will not be able to reverse that"
"trend with a new world division through the force of"
"arms. However, there is a serious risk that in trying to"
"do so, they render the world ungovernable."
NA
"The huge nuclear and conventional arsenals"
"that have been built up, the imposed annual military"
"expenditure that amounts to $1.75 trillion and the"
"increase in military budgets to 2 per cent of the gross"
"domestic product required of all States members of"
"NATO will not help to address or to resolve issues such"
"as poverty, hunger, epidemics or waves of migration or"
"to overcome the global economic, environmental. food,"
"energy and water crises."
NA
"As has already been demonstrated, wherever the"
"so-called unconventional warfare described in the 2010"
"United States Special Forces Army Training Circular"
"18-01 and the innovations of the 2010 United States"
"Quadrennial Defense Review are practised, chaos"
"ensues through the destabilization or destruction"
"of States, the proliferation of violent and extremist"
"groups and the tearing apart of nations, cultures and"
"religions, thereby seriously jeopardizing regional and"
"international peace and security. It is necessary to"
"condemn the militarization of cyberspace and the illegal"
"and covert interference in the information systems"
"of some countries in order to use them in aggressive"
"actions against third countries to stir up conflict, as"
"well as global espionage on Governments and entire"
"societies."
NA
"The extraterritorial application of United States"
"laws to the detriment of other sovereign nations is"
"becoming increasingly aggressive and encourages"
"the use of unilateral sanctions, in particular financial"
"sanctions, as a tool of foreign policy. The use of its"
"courts of justice to impose multimillion-dollar fines,"
"including on its allies, under decisions that violate"
"international law, has become a means of punishment"
"and threat and a way to spuriously obtain financial"
"resources. Governments, by failing to defend their own"
"sovereignty and to apply their own laws so as to protect"
"the standards of the international financial system and"
NA
"the legitimate interests of their nations and those of their"
"companies and citizens, are creating the conditions"
"necessary for the proliferation of such practices, which"
"jeopardize the independence of all States and the rule"
"of international law."
NA
"Media empires, increasingly linked to the"
"hegemonic goals of the Western Powers, continue their"
"misinformation campaigns, shamelessly and cynically"
"manipulate facts and create public opinion matrices"
"that promote aggression. We need another international"
"order, where there is no room for the philosophy of war"
"and the plundering of natural resources."
NA
"The foreign intervention in Syria must stop. It is"
"inconceivable that Western Powers encourage, finance"
"and arm terrorist groups to set them against a State,"
"while trying to combat their crimes in another State, as"
"is now happening in Iraq. The United States Government"
"violates international law when it launches, in contempt"
"of the United Nations, unilateral bombings without"
"respect for sovereign borders or States under the guise"
"of dubious coalitions."
NA
"The attempt to deploy NATO up to Russias borders"
"will have serious consequences for international peace"
"and security and for the stability of Europe. The"
"sanctions against Russia are immoral and unjust. The"
"strategic American deployment in the Asia-Pacific"
"region will create dangers for the sovereignty of all"
"nations in the area."
NA
"Israels crimes against the Palestinian people,"
"most recently in the Gaza Strip, should not remain"
"unpunished under the protection of a veto in the"
"Security Council. Palestine should already be a State"
"Member of the United Nations, established within the"
"1967 borders, with East Jerusalem as its capital."
NA
"The General Assembly must exercise the"
"prerogatives conferred on it by the Charter of the"
"United Nations in the current dangerous and unstable"
"international situation, which is full of threats and"
"challenges. The Security Council should be rebuilt"
"on the basis of democracy, transparency and the fair"
"representation of the countries of the South, which are"
"discriminated against, as permanent and non-permanent"
"members. It should be built on credibility and strict"
"observance of the Charter, without double standards,"
"obscure procedures or the anachronistic veto. The"
"Organization needs profound reform and the defence"
"of its principles. The Secretary-General should be the"
"defender and guarantor of international peace."
NA
"The 1.2 billion people who live in extreme poverty,"
"the 842 million people who suffer chronic hunger,"
"the 774 million illiterate adults and the 57 million"
"uneducated children affirm that the Millennium"
"Development Goals  which are questionable from"
"a methodological point of view  were a mirage."
"There has been and still is a lack of political will in"
"the Governments of industrialized States, where"
"blindness and ineffective selfishness prevail. Insatiable"
"transnational businesses increasingly focus on the"
"ownership of huge resources. The unequal distribution"
"of wealth is increasingly ruthless."
NA
"It is necessary, inevitably, to establish a new"
"international economic order. In these circumstances,"
"the discussions on the post-2015 development agenda"
"give us little reason to hope. However, we must try"
"to reach agreement, as that is the most urgent task. It"
"must be the result of an inclusive intergovernmental"
"negotiation. The resulting document should not be the"
"interpretation of a few parties to the consensus, but"
"rather of the consensus itself."
NA
"It is urgent to make sub-Saharan Africa a priority."
"It is essential to confront jointly and decisively, with"
"sufficient and genuine cooperation, the Ebola epidemic"
"that is affecting some countries of the continent. Cuba"
"has decided to maintain its medical cooperation in the"
"32 African countries where more than 4,000 specialists"
"are working and is willing to extend its cooperation,"
"under the auspices of the World Health Organization"
"(WHO), to other, most affected countries, as has been"
"reported. Our doctors and paramedics will do so"
"completely voluntarily."
NA
"We call on the international community, particularly"
"industrialized countries with substantial means, to"
"forcefully respond to the call of the United Nations"
"and WHO to supply financial, health and scientific"
"resources right away in order to eradicate the scourge"
"and prevent it from claiming more lives. The necessary"
"resources should also be contributed to support the"
"African Unions Agenda 2063, which sets forth the road"
"map for the development of the region."
NA
"In the past five decades, 325,000 Cuban health"
"workers have assisted 158 nations of the South, including"
"39 African countries, where 76,000 have worked. Also,"
"38,000 physicians were trained free of charge in 121"
"countries; of those, 3,392 were in 45 African nations."
"If Cuba, small and subject to a blockade, has been able"
"to do that, how much more could have been done for"
NA
"Africa with the cooperation of all, especially of the"
"richest States?"
NA
"At the second Summit of the Community of"
"Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC), in"
"Havana, we agreed on what is needed to achieve the"
"goal of making societies more just and inclusive. It"
"is indispensable that there be a better distribution of"
"wealth and income, the eradication of illiteracy, quality"
"education for all, real food security, health systems"
"with universal coverage, and the fulfilment of other"
"human rights."
NA
"The solemn Proclamation of Latin America and"
"the Caribbean as a zone of peace, signed by the Heads"
"of State and Government, enshrines respect for the"
"principles and norms of international law, the promotion"
"of a culture of peace, nuclear disarmament and general"
"and complete disarmament, and the inalienable right of"
"every State to choose its political, economic and social"
"system. We also undertook to make Latin America"
"and the Caribbean a region free from colonialism and"
"expressed support for the inalienable right of the people"
"of Puerto Rico to self-determination and independence."
NA
"The Havana summit recognized that the current"
"economic, financial and environmental crises have"
"delivered particularly harsh blows to small island"
"developing States, including the nations of the"
"Caribbean. Their efforts to improve the welfare of"
"their populations should not be punished by calling"
"them middle-income countries through schematic"
"calculations of per capita income, without taking into"
"account their specificities and vulnerabilities."
NA
"In CELAC, the region of Latin America and the"
"Caribbean has found a native and legitimate space"
"to forge from its rich diversity the essential unity to"
"fulfil the dreams of our heroes, achieve the complete"
"independence of Our America and make a substantial"
"contribution to creating balance in the world. In that"
"effort, there have been significant developments  the"
"meeting between the Union of South American Nations"
"and Brazil, the Russian Federation, India, China and"
"South Africa (BRICS); the meeting between the"
"leaders of China and the countries of Latin America"
"and the Caribbean; and the establishment of the China-"
"CELAC Forum in Brasilia in July, as had been agreed"
"in Havana. We welcome the Fortaleza Declaration,"
"also adopted in July in Brazil, at the sixth summit of"
"the BRICS countries  whose economies account for"
"25 per cent of world gross domestic product and almost"
"40 per cent of the population of the planet  as well"
"as the setting up of a development bank and a foreign"
"exchange reserves common fund, which are important"
"for the countries of the South and for the construction"
"of a new international financial architecture."
NA
"We express our solidarity with the Bolivarian"
"and Chavista revolution, which, under the leadership"
"of President Nicolas Maduro, is battling to fend off"
"destabilizing actions and foreign interference. We"
"support the worthy fight being waged by Argentina"
"against speculative capital funds, and we oppose the"
"interventionist decisions of the United States courts"
"that are violating international law. In addition, we"
"reiterate our strong support for the legitimate rights"
"of Argentina with respect to the Malvinas Islands. We"
"also reiterate our unwavering support for the fight that"
"Ecuador is leading against the ecological pillaging"
"and damage caused by the activities of transnational"
"companies."
NA
"On the eve of the International Decade for People"
"of African Descent (2015-2024), we would recall that"
"this year we celebrate the 210th anniversary of the"
"independence of Haiti, whose anti-slavery and pro-"
"independence revolution was the precursor of liberation"
"movements in Latin America and the Caribbean. Haiti"
"deserves special contributions for its reconstruction"
"and development, under the sovereign leadership of its"
"Government, in which we encourage the international"
"community to participate. We support the claim of the"
"Caribbean to receive reparations from the colonial"
"Powers for the horrors of slavery."
NA
"The State Department has again put Cuba on"
"its unilateral and arbitrary list of State sponsors of"
"international terrorism. Its real purpose is to increase"
"scrutiny of our international financial transactions"
"worldwide and justify the policy of blockade. During"
"the current Administration, there has been a tightening"
"of the extraterritorial dimension of the blockade, with"
"a strong and unprecedented emphasis in the financial"
"realm, through the imposition of huge fines on banking"
"institutions in third-party countries. An example of this"
"is the scandalous and unjust mega-fine imposed on the"
"French bank BNP Paribas. Furthermore, the current"
"Administration has not stepped back from promoting"
"destabilization in Cuba. It allocates millions of dollars"
"to that end in its budget every year and increasingly"
"relies on undercover methods, such as the use of"
"information and communications technology. The"
"ZunZuneo project, sponsored by the United States"
"Agency for International Development (USAID), which"
NA
"not only violates Cuban law but also the law of its own"
"country, is the latest evidence of that."
NA
"Recent disclosures about the use of young people"
"from our continent in subversive actions in Cuba,"
"a project funded and executed by USAID, confirm"
"that the Cuban Government is right in its countless"
"denunciations of the ongoing illegal plans of the"
"United States to subvert Cubas internal order, in"
"violation of Cuban sovereignty, the sovereignty of"
"third countries and international law. We cannot fail"
"to remember that this month marks the sixteenth year"
"of the unjust imprisonment of three Cubans from the"
"Cuban Five  Gerardo, Ramn and Antonio  who"
"with the utmost altruism confronted the terrorist plans"
"organized within United States territory against our"
"country. I therefore reiterate, on behalf of the people"
"and Government of Cuba, that we will not cease in our"
"efforts to call for their return to their homeland."
NA
"Cuba, for its part, remains calm and prepared for"
"mutually respectful and responsible dialogue, based"
"on reciprocity, with the United States Government."
"At the same time, Cuba continues to make progress"
"in the updating of its socioeconomic model, despite"
"adverse international circumstances marked by a global"
"economic crisis and the tightening of the blockade."
NA
NA
"Updating Cubans economic socialist model is"
"aimed at ensuring well-being, equity and social justice"
"for all Cubans. The changes that we are introducing"
"are also geared to preserving the achievements of the"
"Revolution, which so many generations have fought for."
"The goal is to build an ever more just, prosperous and"
"sustainable Cuban socialism."
"It was 70 years ago that, on behalf on their peoples, the first Member States of the Organization signed the Charter of the United Nations. We pledged ourselves to preserve future generations from the scourge of war and to build a new type of relationship, guided by a set of purposes and principles that sought to bring about an era of peace, justice and development for all of humanity."
"However, from that moment there have constantly been wars of aggression and interference in the internal affairs of States, the ousting of sovereign Governments"
"by force, so-called soft coups and the recolonization of territories  all perfected by unconventional ways of acting, using new technologies and under the pretext of alleged human rights violations. The militarization of cyberspace and the covert and illegal use of information and communication technologies to attack other States are unacceptable, as is the distortion of the advancement and protection of human rights when used in a selective and discriminatory approach to validate and impose political decisions."
"Despite the fact that the Charter calls on us to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights and the dignity and worth of the human person, for millions of people the fulfilment of human rights remains a utopia. Humankind has been denied the right to live in peace and the right to development. It is actually in poverty and inequality that the cause of conflicts should be sought  conflicts that were earlier generated by colonialism and the plundering of regional peoples, and later by imperialism and the distribution of spheres of influence."
"The commitment made in 1945 to promoting social progress and better standards of living for the peoples, along with their economic and social development, remains an illusion when 795 million people go hungry, when 781 million adults are illiterate, and when 17,000 children perish every day from curable diseases. In the meantime, annual military expenditures worldwide amount to more than $1.7 trillion. Barely a fraction of that figure could actually resolve the most pressing problems afflicting humankind. Even in industrial nations, the welfare society, which was presented as the model to imitate, has practically disappeared. The election systems"
"Climate change is threatening the very existence of the human species. States should assume common but differentiated responsibilities, in view of the indisputable reality that not all countries are equally accountable for what has happened. Not all of us waste natural and human resources through irrational and unsustainable consumerism. The consequences of climate change are particularly for small island developing States and additional tensions to their fragile economies. The same is happening in Africa with the relentless advance of desertification."
"We stand in solidarity with our Caribbean brothers and demand that they be treated in a special and differentiated way. We also support the African countries and demand fair treatment for them, as well as the transfer of technology and financial resources."
"With the establishment of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC), and especially the signing by the CELAC Heads of State and Government in January 2014 of the Proclamation of Latin America and the Caribbean as a Zone of Peace, we have shown that we can move beyond our differences toward unity and the achievement of common goals in the framework of our diversity."
"In the Proclamation we reaffirm our steadfast commitment to the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and in international law to settle disputes by peaceful means and our belief that full respect for the inalienable right of each State to choose its political, economic, social and cultural system is an essential condition for ensuring peaceful coexistence among nations. We demand that those principles be the basis for relations with other States in our region."
"The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela can always rely on the solidarity of Cuba vis--vis the attempts at destabilization and subversion of its constitutional order and the destruction of the work begun by Comrade Hugo Chvez Fras and pursued by President Nicols Maduro Moros for the benefit of the Venezuelan people. Likewise, our firm and unlimited solidarity goes to the Republic of Ecuador, its citizens revolution and its leader Rafael Correa Delgado, who has become the target of the same destabilization script applied against other progressive Governments in the region."
"We stand in solidarity with the Caribbean nations demanding fair reparation for the horrors of slavery and the slave trade, above all in a world where racial discrimination and repression of communities of people of African descent have increased. We also reaffirm our conviction that the people of Puerto Rico deserve to be free and independent after more than a century of colonial domination. We stand in solidarity with the Argentine Republic in its fair claim of sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands, South Georgia and South Sandwich islands."
"We reiterate our support for and solidarity with President Dilma Rousseff and the Brazilian people in defence of their major social achievements and the stability of their country."
"We reaffirm our rejection of the intention to expand the presence of NATO up to the Russian borders, as well as the unilateral and unjust sanctions imposed on that nation."
"We welcome the so-called nuclear agreement with the Islamic Republic of Iran, which proves that engagement and negotiations are the only effective tools for settling disputes between States. We renew our confidence that the Syrian people are capable of solving their disputes by themselves and demand an end to external interference in that country."
"A fair and lasting solution of the Middle East conflict unquestionably requires the true exercise by the Palestinian people of their inalienable right to build their own State within the borders existing prior to 1967, with its capital in East Jerusalem, which we strongly support."
"Over the past few weeks, we have been moved by the images of waves of migration toward Europe. That is a direct result of the destabilizing actions promoted and executed by NATO in countries of the Middle East and North Africa, as well as of the poverty and underdevelopment prevailing in the countries of the African continent. The European Union should take full and immediate responsibility for the human crisis that it helped to generate."
"After 56 years, during which the Cuban people put up heroic and selfless resistance, diplomatic relations have been re-established between Cuba and the United States of America. Now, a long and complex process begins towards the normalization of relations. But that will be achieved only with the end of the economic, commercial and financial blockade against Cuba, the return to our country of the territory illegally occupied by the Guantanamo naval base, and the cessation of radio and television broadcasts and of subversive and destabilizing programmes against the island. Our people should also be compensated for the human and economic damage that"
"While the blockade remains in force, we shall continue introducing the draft resolution entitled Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed by the United States of America against Cuba. To all the 188 Governments and peoples that have sponsored our just demand here"
"and in other international regional forums, we reiterate the eternal appreciation of the Cuban people and Government for their continued support."
"Cuba is celebrating with profound commitment the seventieth anniversary of the United Nations. Despite the efforts that have been made throughout those years, not enough has been done to save present and future generations from the scourge of war and to protect their right to sustainable development without exclusions. The United Nations should be defended from unilateralism and should be deeply reformed to democratize it and bring it closer to the peoples."
"As Comrade Fidel Castro Ruz, the historic leader of the Cuban revolution, stated in this same Hall 15 years ago"
"Everyone understands that the United Nations basic role in the new century now upon us is to save the world not only from war but also from underdevelopment, hunger, diseases, poverty and the destruction of the natural resources indispensable to human life. And the United Nations must do this promptly  before it is too late. The international community can always depend on Cuba to raise its honest voice against injustice, inequality, underdevelopment, discrimination and manipulation and for the establishment of a more equitable and fair international order that really focuses on the human being, his dignity and well-being."
"I would like to begin by expressing our gratitude to the President and to the Secretary-General for their notable efforts in carrying out their mandates."
"The statistics could not be more eloquent  80 per cent of the worlds population owns only 6 per cent of the wealth, while the wealthiest 1 per cent enjoys half of the worlds patrimony. No less than 795 million people suffer from chronic hunger, and 18,000 children die every day due to poverty. More than 660 million people consume non-potable water, and 780 million adults and 103 million young people are illiterate. It is quite likely that they have never heard of the Millenium Development Goals, but if they had they would scarcely believe in the new Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)."
"The gap between our deliberations and the realities of our peoples is persistent. The lack of political will of industrialized countries is clear. We see the perpetuation of the irrational patterns of capitalist production and consumption that lead to the degradation of living conditions on our planet. The enormous conventional and nuclear stockpiles and the annual military expenditures of $1.7 trillion contradict those who claim that we lack the resources to end poverty and underdevelopment."
"However, there are many arguments that justify the urgency of building a new international financial architecture. In developed countries, welfare societies are disappearing, political systems are in crisis, pockets of poverty are expanding, brutal neoliberal adjustment programmes are used against workers, young people and migrants, and dark and dangerous neo-fascist forces gain strength."
"The philosophy of plundering underpins NATO countries military interventions and non-conventional wars against sovereign States as they seek to overthrow Governments and appropriate natural resources. The imposition of unilateral coercive measures and the use of financial, legal, cultural and media tools to destabilize Governments has become our daily bread. The militarization and aggressive use of cyberspace, the violation of the human rights of hundreds of millions of people, and the waves of refugees driven by underdevelopment and NATO interventions towards Europe are evidence of the cruelty, oppressive nature, inefficiency and unsustainability of the current international order,"
"The year 2015 was also one of the worst in terms of climate change, with mounting global temperatures, the melting of the polar ice caps, the rise in sea levels and an increase in greenhouse-gas emissions. Under these circumstances, we reiterate our solidarity with the small island developing States, especially in the Caribbean, which are the most deeply affected by climate change and for which we demand fair, special and differential treatment."
"While we all expect to see some progress in the fulfilment by industrialized countries of the obligations entered into under the ambiguous Paris Agreement on Climate Change, only tangible data on financing and transfers of technology to developing countries can justify hopes for the survival of the human species. However, capitalism will never be historically or environmentally sustainable."
"Peace and development are the raison dtre of the United Nations. The creation of a culture of peace and justice as the basis of a new international order is an urgent and imperative need for the human species. Any attempt to prolong the existence of a unipolar world through war, domination or hegemony would be suicidal. The observance of the Charter of the United Nations and international law are indispensable for peaceful coexistence among States."
"The United Nations must be defended from unilateralism. At the same time, it needs to be reformed into a more democratic Organization, one that is closer to the problems, needs and aspirations of people. It must be capable of leading the international system towards peace, sustainable development and respect for all human rights for everyone."
"The reform of the Security Council, in both its composition and its working methods, is a task that should not be postponed any longer. The strengthening of the General Assembly and the restoration of the functions that were usurped by the Security Council should guide our search for a more democratic and efficient Organization."
"It is imperative to find a just and lasting solution to the Middle East conflict, inexorably based on the exercise of the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to build its own State within the pre-1967 borders, with East Jerusalem as its capital."
"The situation of the Western Sahara requires an effort pursuant to the relevant United Nations resolutions to guarantee the self-determination of the Sahrawi people and respect for their legitimate right to live in peace in their territory."
"Once again, we reiterate our confidence that the people of the Syrian Arab Republic will be able to resolve their differences on their own when the foreign intervention aimed at promoting regime change ceases."
"NATOs attempts to expand its presence closer to Russias borders and the deployment of its anti-missile systems are an incentive to the arms race and a threat to international peace and security. Similarly, we express our opposition to the unjust and unilateral sanctions imposed against the Russian people that are also harmful to Europe."
"Cuba, which has been the victim of State terrorism, reiterates its strong condemnation of all forms and manifestations of terrorism."
"The Proclamation of Latin America and the Caribbean as a Zone of Peace, signed in Havana by the Heads of State and Government of our region in January 2014, during the third Summit of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, establishes principles and rules for coexistence, cooperation and respect among States that are indispensable for the realization of the right to peace and applicable to relations within our America and its relations with the hemisphere and the world."
"We welcome the historic General Agreement for the Termination of the Conflict and the Construction of a Stable and Lasting Peace, which was reached in Havana on 24 August. We will do our best, always at the request of the parties, to support its implementation."
"We will continue to support the Government and the people of Venezuela, the civic-military union and Constitutional President Nicols Maduro Moros in defence of its sovereignty and self-determination against the imperialist and oligarchic interference that is attempting to destroy the Bolivarian and Chavista revolution to take over Venezuelas oil reserves and reverse the enormous social achievements that have been attained."
"We strongly condemn the parliamentary and judicial coup dtat perpetrated in Brazil against President Dilma Rousseff and express our solidarity with her, the Brazilian people, the Workers Party and former President Luiz Incio Lula da Silva."
"We reiterate our conviction that the Puerto Rican people deserve to be free and independent, after more than a century under colonial rule."
"We will not renounce any of our revolutionary and anti-imperialist principles, the defence of independence, social justice and peoples rights, nor our commitment to cooperate with those in greatest need. Cuban cooperation workers, who work on all continents, will continue to make their contribution, including the 46,000 persons who are currently working in 61 countries fighting for the life and health of human beings."
"The Cuban Medical Professional Parole Programme, applied by the United States of America to pursue the political objective of impeding Cubas medical cooperation and deprive the recipient countries and Cuba of valuable and highly qualified human resources, is a shameful obstacle. Just over a year has elapsed since the restoration of diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States and the reopening of their respective Embassies. Some progress has been achieved in our bilateral relations, particularly in diplomatic relations, dialogue and cooperation in areas of common interest, as evidenced by high-level visits, including a visit by President Obama, and the dozen of agreements"
"Executive measures adopted by the Government of the United States, although positive, are still insufficient. There are many recent examples of the economic, commercial and financial damage caused by the blockade to Cuba and to third countries. As long as this continues to happen, we will continue to present the draft resolution entitled Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed by the United States of America against Cuba for consideration by the Assembly."
"We reiterate the readiness of the Government of Cuba to continue developing a respectful dialogue with the Government of the United States, while knowing that we still have a long way to go if we are to normalize our relations, which means building a model of bilateral relations that is a totally new in terms of our common history that can never be forgotten. For this to be possible some day, it will be essential for the blockade to be lifted. In addition, the territory illegally occupied by the United States Naval Base at Guantnamo, against the will of Cuba, must be returned to us."
"The Cuban people, even amid the adverse conditions imposed by the current international scenario and the persistence of the economic, commercial and financial blockade imposed by the United States, continues to be involved in updating the economic and social model that it has decided to implement in a fully sovereign way in order to build an independent, sovereign, socialist, prosperous and sustainable nation."
